

=== PAGE 1 ===

Technology Education
Key Learning Area
Information and
Communication Technology
Curriculum and Assessment Guide
(Secondary 4 – 6)
Jointly prepared by the Curriculum Development Council and
the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority
Published for use in schools by the Education Bureau
HKSARG
2021
Effective from Secondary 4 in the 2022/23 school year

=== PAGE 3 ===

Contents
Page
Preamble i
Acronym iii
Chapter 1 Introduction 1
1.1 Background 1
1.2 Rationale 2
1.3 Curriculum Aims 3
1.4 Interface with the Junior Secondary Curriculum and 3
Post-secondary Pathways
1.5 Cross-Curricular Links 4
Chapter 2 Curriculum Framework 5
2.1 Design Principles 5
2.2 Learning Targets 5
2.3 Curriculum Structure and Organisation 6
2.3.1 The Compulsory Part 11
2.3.2 The Elective Part 37
Chapter 3 Curriculum Planning 53
3.1 Guiding Principles 53
3.2 Progression 54
3.3 Curriculum Planning Strategies 61
3.3.1 For Students of Different Abilities and Inclinations 61
3.3.2 Making Student Learning More Meaningful 62
3.4 Curriculum Management 63
3.4.1 Areas of Work 63
3.4.2 Roles of Different School Personnel 64
Chapter 4 Learning and Teaching 67
4.1 Guiding Principles 67
4.2 Teacher and Student Roles 68
4.3 Approaches and Strategies 69
4.3.1 Acquisition of Content Knowledge 70
4.3.2 Development of Generic Skills 70
4.3.3 Development of Positive Values and Attitudes 72
4.3.4 Choosing Appropriate Strategies 72
4.3.5 Teaching for Understanding 77

=== PAGE 4 ===

4.3.6 Learning Outside Classroom 78
4.4 Interaction 78
4.5 Catering for Learner Diversity 80
4.5.1 Different Strategies 80
4.5.2 Different Learning Styles 80
4.5.3 Learners with Special Education Needs 80
4.6 Building a Learning Community 82
4.6.1 Co-construction in a Learning Community 82
4.6.2 Developing Student Potential in a Learning 82
Community
Chapter 5 Assessment 85
5.1 The Roles of Assessment 85
5.2 Formative and Summative Assessment 85
5.3 Assessment Objectives 86
5.4 Internal Assessment 87
5.4.1 Guiding Principles 87
5.4.2 Internal Assessment Practices 88
5.5 Public Assessment 90
5.5.1 Guiding Principles 90
5.5.2 Assessment Design 91
5.5.3 Public Examinations 91
5.5.4 School-based Assessment 91
5.5.5 Standards and Reporting of Results 93
Chapter 6 Learning and Teaching Resources 95
6.1 Purpose and Function of Learning and Teaching Resources 95
6.2 Guiding Principles 95
6.3 Types of Resources 95
6.3.1 Textbooks 96
6.3.2 Reference Materials 96
6.3.3 The Internet and Technology 96
6.3.4 Community Resources 98
6.4 Flexible Use of Learning and Teaching Resources 100
6.5 Resource Management 100
6.5.1 Developing a School-based Resource Bank 100
6.5.2 Sharing Resources 101
6.5.3 Accessing Resources 101
6.5.4 Inventories of Computer Equipment 101
6.6 Funding 101

=== PAGE 5 ===

Appendices 103
1 An Elaborated Version of Example 3 in Chapter 4 - 103
Integration of Generic Skills
2 An Elaborated Version of Example 7 in Chapter 4 - 104
the Use of Multiple Teaching Strategies
3 Programming Languages Used in Public Examination 105
4 References and Websites for Learning and Teaching 106
Glossary 109
References 113
Membership of the CDC-HKEAA Committee on Information and
Communication Technology (Senior Secondary)

=== PAGE 6 ===

(Blank Page)

=== PAGE 7 ===

Preamble
The Education and Manpower Bureau (EMB, now renamed Education Bureau (EDB)) stated
in its report1 in 2005 that the implementation of a three-year senior secondary academic
structure would commence at Secondary 4 in September 2009. The senior secondary
academic structure is supported by a flexible, coherent and diversified senior secondary
curriculum aimed at catering for students’ varied interests, needs and abilities. This
Curriculum and Assessment (C&A) Guide is one of the series of documents prepared for the
senior secondary curriculum. It is based on the goals of senior secondary education and on
other official documents related to the curriculum and assessment reform since 2000,
including the Basic Education Curriculum Guide (Primary 1 - 6) (CDC, 2017) and the
Secondary Education Curriculum Guide (CDC, 2017). To gain a full understanding of the
connection between education at the senior secondary level and other key stages, and how
effective learning, teaching and assessment can be achieved, it is strongly recommended that
reference should be made to all related documents.
This C&A Guide is designed to provide the rationale and aims of the subject curriculum,
followed by chapters on the curriculum framework, curriculum planning, pedagogy,
assessment and use of learning and teaching resources. One key concept underlying the
senior secondary curriculum is that curriculum, pedagogy and assessment should be well
aligned. While learning and teaching strategies form an integral part of the curriculum and are
conducive to promoting learning to learn and whole-person development, assessment should
also be recognised not only as a means to gauge performance but also to improve learning. To
understand the interplay between these three key components, all chapters in the C&A Guide
should be read in a holistic manner.
The C&A Guide was jointly prepared by the Curriculum Development Council (CDC) and
the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority (HKEAA) in 2007. The first
updating was made in January 2014 to align with the short-term recommendations made on
the senior secondary curriculum and assessment resulting from the New Academic Structure
(NAS) review so that students and teachers could benefit at the earliest possible instance.
This updating is made to align with the medium-term recommendations of the NAS review
made on curriculum and assessment. The second updating was made in December 2019 in
response to the trends of technology curriculum. The CDC is an advisory body that gives
recommendations to the HKSAR Government on all matters relating to curriculum
development for the school system from kindergarten to senior secondary level. Its
membership includes heads of schools, practising teachers, parents, employers, academics
from tertiary institutions, professionals from related fields/bodies, representatives from the
HKEAA and the Vocational Training Council (VTC), as well as officers from the EDB. The
HKEAA is an independent statutory body responsible for the conduct of public assessment,
including the assessment for the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE). Its
governing council includes members drawn from the school sector, tertiary institutions and
government bodies, as well as professionals and members of the business community.
1 The report is The New Academic Structure for Senior Secondary Education and Higher Education – Action
Plan for Investing in the Future of Hong Kong.
i

=== PAGE 8 ===

The C&A Guide is recommended by the EDB for use in secondary schools. The subject
curriculum forms the basis of the assessment designed and administered by the HKEAA. In
this connection, the HKEAA will issue a handbook to provide information on the rules and
regulations of the HKDSE Examination as well as the structure and format of public
assessment for each subject.
The CDC and HKEAA will keep the subject curriculum under constant review and evaluation
in the light of classroom experiences, students’ performance in the public assessment, and the
changing needs of students and society. All comments and suggestions on this C&A Guide
may be sent to:
Chief Curriculum Development Officer (Technology Education)
Curriculum Development Institute
Education Bureau
Room W101, 1/F, West Block
Education Bureau Kowloon Tong Education Services Centre
19 Suffolk Road
Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong
Fax: 2768 8664
E-mail: teched@edb.gov.hk
ii

=== PAGE 9 ===

Acronym
C&A Curriculum and Assessment
CDC Curriculum Development Council
EDB Education Bureau
EMB Education and Manpower Bureau
HKDSE Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education
HKEAA Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority
HKSAR Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
ICT Information and Communication Technology
IT Information Technology
KLA Key Learning Area
S1/2/3/4/5/6 Secondary 1/2/3/4/5/6
SBA School-based Assessment
SECG Secondary Education Curriculum Guide
iii

=== PAGE 10 ===

(Blank Page)
iv

=== PAGE 11 ===

Chapter 1 Introduction
This chapter provides the background, rationale and aims of Information and Communication
Technology (ICT) as an elective subject in the three-year senior secondary curriculum, and
highlights how it articulates with the junior secondary curriculum, post-secondary education,
and future career pathways.
1.1 Background
Technology Education (TE) in the Hong Kong school curriculum focuses on how human
beings solve their daily problems and how the processes involved can be replicated and
transferred to solve new problems. It is an essential area of study for all students in Hong
Kong.
In the 21st century, technology has become an integral part of our life. Citizens of today
require much more than a basic ability to read, write, and do simple mathematics. To live in
the modern world, we must understand how technology affects us. In this regard, we must be
equipped to use technology effectively and flexibly to solve daily problems with positive
attitude at home, in the community, and around the world; and to create new solutions,
products, and services for the well-being of humankind.
By studying the related subjects developed in TE Key Learning Area (KLA), our students
will be better prepared to meet the uncertainties and challenges of the future with regard to
social, economic, ecological, scientific and technological changes, both locally and globally.
Their studies in this area will help them to lead a healthy lifestyle in adulthood and to
contribute to building a caring and harmonious society.
Building on the strengths of the existing TE curriculum and catering for social, economic and
technological development, ICT is one of the five elective subjects developed under TE KLA
in the senior secondary curriculum.
In order to promote the educational aims of lifelong learning and whole-person development,
the Curriculum Development Council has published the final report on its Holistic Review of
the School Curriculum Learning to Learn – The Way Forward in Curriculum Development in
2001 as well as the Senior Education Curriculum Guide and Technology Education Key
Learning Area Curriculum Guide (Primary 1–Secondary 6) in 2017, which outlined the
overall direction for both education and curriculum development in Hong Kong. The key
recommendations made in the above documents have been incorporated in the Senior
Secondary Information and Communication Technology Curriculum and Assessment Guide
(CDC, 2007) (with updates in January 2021).
1

=== PAGE 12 ===

1.2 Rationale
ICT is the technology required for information processing, i.e. for the creation, manipulation,
storage, retrieval and communication of information. They are of immense value in a world
in which there is an “information explosion”, and where knowledge is complex,
ever-changing and cross-disciplinary in nature.
Many of the skills of ICT are important aspects of Information Literacy, which relates to the
ability to select, organise, analyse and use information effectively. Quick and effective
access to information is regarded as essential for everyone in contemporary society; and the
ability to construct knowledge from the information gathered has become crucial in Hong
Kong’s knowledge-based society. Citizens in the 21st century need to understand and be able
to use ICT in order to function efficiently in modern society. To maintain the competitiveness
of Hong Kong in the world economy, we need to develop interest and nurture talent in our
students in this area.
The importance of ICT does not lie in the technology as such, but in its enabling function for
access to knowledge and for communication with others. Rapid advances in ICT have
continued to drive economic change, restructure businesses, affect education and employment,
and contribute significantly to growth and wealth creation.
The senior secondary ICT curriculum should prove especially relevant to students since it
will equip them with the knowledge, skills and attitudes necessary to address rapid change.
It should also be a means to develop students’ intellectual capacity and lifelong learning
skills.
The senior secondary ICT curriculum provides students with knowledge, practical skills and
an understanding of the processes involved in problem-solving using technology. It
encompasses problem identification, solution and design, and the applications of ICT
knowledge and skills in these processes.
The senior secondary ICT curriculum relates to many aspects of modern life and to diverse
fields of study within and beyond senior secondary education. Students will be exposed to a
variety of intellectual challenges involving problem-solving, communication and a range of
associated practical skills and concepts. Studying this course will contribute significantly to
the education of students by providing pathways into the workforce or preparing them for
further studies in ICT-related fields. The course also provides opportunities for the
development of key generic skills such as critical thinking, communication, creativity and
problem-solving, in contexts that derive naturally from the learning objectives, outcomes and
experiences.
2

=== PAGE 13 ===

1.3 Curriculum Aims
The senior secondary ICT curriculum aims to
 provide students with a body of essential knowledge, concepts and applications of
information, communication and computer systems;
 equip students with problem-solving and communication skills, and encourage them to
think critically and creatively;
 develop students into competent, effective, discriminating, ethical and confident users of
ICT, so as to support their lifelong learning; and
 provide students with opportunities to appreciate the impact of ICT on our
knowledge-based society, so as to nurture in them positive values and attitudes towards
this area.
1.4 Interface with the Junior Secondary Curriculum and
Post-secondary Pathways
The linkage of the curriculum with students’ various ICT learning experiences at school
levels and beyond is depicted in the diagram below:
Primary Level Junior Secondary Senior Secondary Post-secondary
Level Level School Level
Further studies of
ICT in tertiary
education
ICT knowledge Proficient use of
context under ICT as a tool to
support disciplinary
Computational TEKLA curriculum,
learning
thinking and and to strengthen the
programming skills, development of Senior secondary
and the experiences students’ ICT curriculum
of using IT as a tool computational
to facilitate learning thinking and the
related programming
knowledge and skills
Further studies of
ICT to obtain
industrial
recognition
Effective use of ICT
in the workforce
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Knowledge Context
under TEKLA curriculum at Key Stage 3
Figure 1.1 The continuum of learning for students in ICT
3

=== PAGE 14 ===

1.5 Cross-Curricular Links
One of the learning goals in the senior secondary curriculum is to ensure that students can
apply IT skills to learning across all KLAs. In planning the senior secondary ICT
curriculum, schools should ensure that they will provide students with rich learning
experiences to enable them to learn to use ICT effectively, develop generic skills, and connect
this curriculum with learning elements in other KLAs. The following examples illustrate
some activities that may enhance students’ learning in ICT and other KLAs:
Key Learning Area Examples of Activities
 Use GeoGebra to learn geometric theories of
Mathematics Education
circles.
Personal, Social and  Use Geographic Information System to learn
Humanities Education advanced map reading skills.
 Use data-loggers to carry out data-logging
experiments on Neutralization of Acids and
Science Education
Alkalis, then use computers to analyse the
experimental results.
 Produce music materials with consideration to
Arts Education intellectual property right of songs and music
on the net.
 Propose appropriate physical exercises when
Physical Education using computers to reduce injuries arising from
Repetitive Strain Injuries (RSI).
4

=== PAGE 15 ===

Chapter 2 Curriculum Framework
The curriculum framework for ICT embodies the key knowledge, skills, values and attitudes
that students are to develop at senior secondary level. It forms the basis on which schools and
teachers plan their school-based curriculum, and design appropriate learning, teaching and
assessment activities.
2.1 Design Principles
The design of the senior secondary ICT curriculum is founded on the following principles,
which are in line with those recommended in the Technology Education Key Learning Area
Curriculum Guide (Primary 1 - Secondary 6) (CDC, 2017). The design:
 Builds on prior knowledge, experiences, skills and positive values and attitudes that
students have acquired through the ICT knowledge context under TEKLA curriculum
and/or school-based curricula related to computer and IT in basic education;
 Achieves a balance between breath and depth in ICT learning to facilitate students’
further studies and career development;
 Emphasises the significance of both theoretical and applied learning through the use of
common applications of ICT in daily life;
 Achieves a balance between essential learning and a diversified curriculum by
introducing Compulsory and Elective Parts to cater for students’ varied needs, interests
and abilities;
 Promotes independent learning through developing students’ skills in learning how to
learn;
 Ensures a close alignment between curriculum, pedagogy and assessment;
 Provides suggestions for progression across the three years of the course;
 Provides articulation to a range of pathways leading to further studies and to work in
different ICT-related fields;
 Fosters coherence between ICT and other KLAs through sample activities that encourage
cross-curricular collaboration; and
 Takes into account the feasibility of curriculum implementation in the local education
context.
2.2 Learning Objectives and Outcomes
During the three-year senior secondary ICT curriculum, students work towards the following
learning targets in the categories of “Knowledge and Understanding”, “Skills” and “Values
and Attitudes”.
Knowledge and Understanding
 Develop knowledge and understanding of the range and organisation of computer systems,
and the interrelationships between hardware, software and data; and
 Realise the social, ethical and legal issues pertaining to the use of ICT.
5

=== PAGE 16 ===

Skills
 Use a range of applications software effectively, ethically and with discrimination to
support information processing and problem-solving; and
 Demonstrate an understanding of methods for analysing problems, and planning and
implementing solutions using ICT.
Values and Attitudes
 Appreciate how information literacy and the sharing of knowledge using ICT influence
decision-making and shape our society; and
 Develop responsible and positive attitudes towards the use of ICT.
2.3 Curriculum Structure and Organisation
The senior secondary ICT curriculum is based on the S4–5 Computer and Information
Technology curriculum introduced in 2003, and the revision of the two sixth form computer
curricula – Advanced-level Computer Studies and Advanced Supplementary-level Computer
Applications – in 2005. It is a three-year course targeted at students with IT skills at Level 3
stated in Information Technology Learning Targets, or S3 Computer Literacy level (Education
Department, 2000).
The curriculum is organised into a Compulsory Part and an Elective Part, as shown in the
diagram on page 7.
The Compulsory Part of the curriculum occupies 144 hours and spans approximately one and
a half school years. It comprises a number of topics involving the fundamental principles in
information and communication technologies and provides students with a solid foundation
and broad area of study in ICT. The Compulsory Part consists of five modules, namely
Information Processing, Computer System Fundamentals, Internet and Its Applications,
Computational Thinking and Programming and Social Implications. The details of the
topics and learning outcomes of the Compulsory Part are shown on pages 11–35.
The Elective Part takes up about 76 hours of curriculum time and spans about one school year.
Three options, drawn from distinctive fields of computing and information science and their
applications, are offered in the Elective Part. Based on their abilities, interests and needs,
students are required to choose two specialised areas for in-depth study. The options in the
Elective Part can be broadly categorised as those illustrating applications of computers in
specific areas, and those intended for students who will pursue further studies in ICT as a
discipline in tertiary education, but the two are not mutually exclusive. The options are
Databases, Web Application Development and Algorithm and Programming. Details of the
options are covered on pages 37–51.
6

=== PAGE 17 ===

Curriculum Framework of senior secondary ICT
The Compulsory Part (144 hours)
A. Information Processing (37 hours) B. Computer System Fundamentals (20 hours)
D. Computational Thinking and
C. Internet and its Applications (31 hours) (48 hours)
Programming
E. Social Implications (8 hours)
+
+ School-based
Assessment
(30 hours)
The Elective Part (76 hours)
(Choose any two)
A. B. C.
Databases Web Application Development Algorithm and Programming
7

=== PAGE 18 ===

The recommended number of hours for each module and option are noted below:
Module / Option No. of hours allocated
The Compulsory Part 144
A. Information Processing 37
a. Introduction to Information Processing 3
b. Data Organisation and Data Control 4
c. Data Representation 10
d. Data Manipulation and Analysis 20
B. Computer System Fundamentals 20
a. Basic Machine Organisation 14
b. System Software 6
C. Internet and its Applications 31
a. Networking and Internet Basics 9
b. Internet Services and Applications 5
c. Elementary Web Authoring 3
d. Threats and Security on the Internet 14
D. Computational Thinking and Programming 48
a. Problem-Formulation and Analysis 5
b. Algorithm Design 12
c. Program Development 20
d. Program Testing and Debugging 11
E. Social Implications 8
a. Technological Innovations 3
b. Health and Ethical Issues 3
c. Intellectual Property 2
The Elective Part (Choose any two only) 76
A. Databases 38
a. Relational Databases Concepts 6
b. SQL 18
c. Database Design Methodology 14
B. Web Application Development 38
a. Network Services and Implementation 14
b. Web Programming and Applications 24
C. Algorithm and Programming 38
a. Programming 32
b. Applications of Programming in Real Life 6
School-based Assessment 30
Total Curriculum Time 250 hours1
1 The lesson time for each elective subject is 250 hours (or 10% of the total allocation time) for planning purpose, and schools have the
flexibility to allocate lesson time at their discretion in order to enhance learning and teaching effectiveness and cater for students’ needs.
As always, the amount of time spent in learning and teaching is governed by a variety of factors, including whole-school curriculum
planning, learners’ abilities and needs, students’ prior knowledge, teaching and assessment strategies, teaching styles and the number of
subjects offered. Schools should exercise professional judgement and flexibility over time allocation to achieve specific curriculum aims
and objectives as well as to suit students' specific needs and the school context.
8

=== PAGE 19 ===

Details of the curriculum are set out on pages 11–51. The order of the modules and options,
however, is not fixed. The organisation of individual modules or options represents just one
possible way of organising the curriculum content. Teachers may structure and design
teaching schemes in their own way according to their school situation and student needs,
interests and abilities.
The ICT curriculum presents the overall aims, major targets and content of the curriculum.
For each module or option, the following information is also provided:
 The Introduction provides an overview of how the module or option is approached in the
curriculum;
 Learning Objectives specify what students will learn in the module or option and to what
extent/level they will be learnt;
 Topics are included within each module or option. They are numbered and sub-topics
are included where necessary. A suggested time allocation for each topic is also given;
 Learning Outcomes embody the essential content of each learning topic in detail; and
 Remarks are written in small print, where appropriate, to serve three purposes. They
- provide further information such as the depth and breadth of the learning elements;
- alert teachers to the opportunities for fostering the most dominant generic skills
associated with a particular topic/sub-topic; and
- serve as teaching notes.
Each module or option is written with learning outcomes that use action verbs to indicate the
thinking or practical skills that students should exhibit during the course of study:
Examples of action verbs Students need to demonstrate
Be aware of, know, define, write, list, The recall and understanding of specific
relate, recognise, state terms or facts and simple concepts.
Discuss, describe, explain, identify, The application of declarative
demonstrate, apply, convert knowledge and practical skills in
particular contexts.
Distinguish, analyse, compare, evaluate, The analysis of materials or systems into
organise, prepare, test their constituent parts and the
recognition of relationships between
parts.
Develop, plan, design, construct, process, The synthesis of concepts and skills
integrate, implement from different areas into a plan for
solving a problem or reaching a
conclusion, and the transfer of learnt
concepts and skills to new scenarios /
situations.
9

=== PAGE 20 ===

(Blank Page)
10

=== PAGE 21 ===

2.3.1 The Compulsory Part
The Compulsory Part comprises five modules:
A. Information Processing
Introduction
This module provides students with a fundamental understanding of what information
systems and information processing entail, and how data are represented inside a computer.
Students will learn that different software is used to process different types of data. They
will be given practical tasks to process and present information. Built on the basic
knowledge, understanding and skills of spreadsheet and database acquired by students in
junior secondary. This will enhance students’ personal productivity in their work or study, and
enable them to apply their learning effectively to problem-solving and data analysis.
Learning Objectives
Students will learn about:
 information systems and processes in real-life contexts;
 the difference between information and data;
 how data are organised and represented inside a computer;
 manipulate and analyse data; and
 how advances in ICT foster the development of the Information Age and its impact on
society.
The time allocation for the module is about 37 hours.
Details
This module comprises four topics: “Introduction to Information Processing”, “Organisation
and Data Control”, “Data Representation” and “Data Manipulation and Analysis”. Details of
the four topics are summarised below:
11

=== PAGE 22 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
a. Introduction to Information Processing  Identify and examine the components of The components include the purposes, data,
(3 hours) an information system. processes, technologies and personnel.
 Distinguish between various information Information processes include data collection,
processes. organisation, analysis, storage, processing,
transmission and presentation. Examples
from daily life, both computer and
non-computer-based processes, should be
used to consolidate and enhance students’
understanding of the activities involved.
 Realise the difference between data and
information, and identify different types
of data as text, number, image, audio and
video.
 Define Information Age and discuss the How the development of technologies leads to
importance of information literacy in a the emergence of the Information Age, and
knowledge-based society. how information can be flexibly and
analytically converted into knowledge in
modern society should be discussed.
12

=== PAGE 23 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
b. Data Organisation and Data Control  Identify data, records, fields, files and
(4 hours) databases in the hierarchical organisation
of data.
 Explain how records can be organised,
stored and retrieved. State the
advantages, disadvantages and
applications of the two types of file
access: direct access and sequential
access.
 Discuss the needs of data control.
 Describe how errors can be detected by
using validation and parity checking, and
prevented by verification and validation.
c. Data Representation (10 hours)  Distinguish between analog and digital
data. State applications or situations
where conversion of analog to digital
data is required, or vice versa.
 Explain why IT uses digital data The relationship between the number of bits
and number of patterns/combinations
available should be mentioned (e.g. three bits
can be used to represent eight colours).
13

=== PAGE 24 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Convert integers from denary numbers to Adopt two’s complement for the
binary numbers or hexadecimal representation of negative integers.
numbers, or vice versa.
 Perform simple calculations (addition In understanding errors, minimum and
and subtraction only) on binary numbers maximum numbers an n-bit can hold
and analyse overflow errors. (maximum 2 bytes) should be considered.
 Know how characters are represented by The relationship between the size of the
using common international standards character set and the representation should be
such as American Standard Code for explained. Recall of specific codes is not
Information Interchange (ASCII), the required.
Big-5 code, the Guobiao (GB) code and
the Unicode.
 Know briefly how different multimedia Common file formats such as bmp, png, jpg,
elements are digitised. Convert them wav, mp3, avi, mpeg4, txt, docx, odt and pdf.
into different file formats and compare
them for storing the same data.
d. Data Manipulation and Analysis  Describe and use basic features of The use of cell references in formulas, and
(20 hours) spreadsheets to solve problems. functions, together with mathematical, logical
and relational operators should form part of
the content.
 Demonstrate data manipulation This includes filtering, searching and sorting
techniques in spreadsheets. data using single or multiple criteria. The
manipulation of data dynamically in multiple
worksheets should also be introduced.
14

=== PAGE 25 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Apply spreadsheets as a data analysis Through task-based activities, apart from the
tool by using a pivot table (and a pivot basic features and functions (sum, sub-total
chart), and “what-if” scenarios. and average) of a pivot table, students should
be led to observe and analyse the
interdependency of data by varying the fields
in a pivot table.
Together with charting, simulating real-life
situations and “what-if” scenarios, students
should learn to identify trends, to make
informed judgments, and to produce
meaningful predictions which are required as
critical thinkers throughout their careers.
 Apply the concepts of data organisation
to create and maintain a simple database
using a Database Management Systems
(DBMS) tool.
 Create and use a form for data entry.
 Practise data extraction and This includes the selection, filtering and
manipulation by querying a database and sorting of data using query in a single
create reports. database table. Students should be able to
trace and interpret simple Structured Query
Language (SQL) statements. Though
sophisticated reports are not required, they
should create and format reports for intended
users / audience.
15

=== PAGE 26 ===

(Blank Page)
16

=== PAGE 27 ===

B. Computer System Fundamentals
Introduction
This module provides students with a basic understanding of how the different components of
a computer system work together to perform computational tasks. This includes the
learning of the functional units of a computer, the system software, and the different modes of
operation for different applications.
Learning Objectives
Students will learn about:
 the functions and properties of the major components of a computer system and how
these components interact together to perform tasks;
 the functions and properties of major peripheral devices, and their uses in specific
situations;
 the use of different utility programs in managing systems and files;
 the capabilities of different operating systems, and the basic concepts of a computer
network and its applications; and
 different modes of operation.
The time allocation for the module is about 20 hours.
Details
This module comprises two topics: “Basic Machine Organisation” and “System Software”.
Details of the two topics are summarised below:
17

=== PAGE 28 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
a. Basic Machine Organisation (14 hours)  Explain the functions of hardware within a Processing units include central processing
computer system, namely input and output unit (CPU) and graphics processing unit
devices, processing units, bus system and (GPU).
storage devices.
 Explain the structure and functions of a Students should know how CPU is measured
CPU and its components. in terms of frequency. Units such as
microsecond, nanosecond and picosecond
should also be introduced.
 Outline the steps in the
fetch-decode-execute cycle using a single
processor, and describe the roles of and the
interdependence among components,
registers and buses in the machine cycle.
 Describe the functions and characteristics Students’ understanding of main memory
of Random Access Memory (RAM), Read should be extended to the current technologies
Only Memory (ROM) and memory cache. in RAM and ROM in terms of capacity and
Realise the relationship among the size of data access rate.
the memory, the memory address, word
length and the performance of the The meanings of units such as terabytes,
computer. gigabytes, megabytes and kilobytes should be
introduced. Also, the distinction between
prefixes used in computer and the Système
International (SI) notation should also be
made (e.g. 1KB = 1024 Bytes, not 1000
Bytes).
18

=== PAGE 29 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Describe the features, advantages, Students should know the various hardware
disadvantages and applications of the input devices used for collecting and displaying
and output devices. Select and justify the different types of data such as image, audio,
use of appropriate devices for collecting video and text. The technical details on how
and displaying information in a given each device operates are not required.
context.
 Describe the functional characteristics of Examples of storage devices are magnetic
storage devices in terms of random or disk, optical disk, flash memory, magnetic
sequential access, volatile or non-volatile, tape and network storage. In understanding
data transfer rate and storage capacity. the characteristics of storage devices, students
should be made aware of the trend to faster
and greater storage capacity but smaller
physical size over time.
 Outline the latest developments in computer Technical details are not required.
systems including processor capabilities,
primary memory technologies, secondary
storage devices and data communications.
b. System Software (6 hours)  Know the functions of system software and
applications software, and the relationship
between hardware, system software,
applications software and users.
 Outline the basic functions of an operating
system and describe some common
operating systems, and their differences and
applications.
19

=== PAGE 30 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 State the functions and needs of utility Examples of the utilities are data compressors,
programs and driver programs. virus checkers, file managers,
defragmentation software and system
monitoring software. Technical details of
these programs are not required but
demonstration or practice on their use should
be given.
 Distinguish the characteristics and Modes of operation to be considered are batch
applications of various modes of processing, real-time processing, parallel
operation. processing, distributed processing, and
virtualisation.
20

=== PAGE 31 ===

C. Internet and its Applications
Introduction
This module is designed to acquaint students with Internet fundamentals. It encompasses
the concepts of Internet access, services and applications of the Internet, and elementary web
page design. Students will also be given the opportunity to critically analyse the reliability
of the information retrieved from the Web and appreciate the impact of the Internet on
various activities in society.
Learning Objectives
Students will learn about:
 how to connect to the Internet, and the hardware, software and Internet Service Provider
(ISP) involved in accessing the Internet;
 the personal, social and commercial activities that are available on the Internet;
 how to participate in various Internet activities such as searching for information, sharing
opinions, and exchanging messages and files;
 the technologies involved in transmitting and displaying multimedia elements on the
Internet;
 the design and construction of simple web pages for an intended audience;
 the potential threats on the Internet and measures to reduce them; and
 the need to use ICT safely, sensibly, legally and ethically.
The time allocation for the module is about 31 hours.
Details
This module comprises four topics: “The Networking and Internet Basics”, “Internet Services
and Applications”, “Elementary Web Authoring” and “Threats and Security on the Internet”.
Details of the four topics are summarised below:
21

=== PAGE 32 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
a. Networking and Internet Basics  Define and compare Local Area
(9 hours) Network (LAN) and Wide Area
Network (WAN).
 Know the formats and functions of IPv4 Technical details are not required.
and IPv6.
 Discuss the common services available Services include internal communications,
in a networked environment. conferencing and resources sharing.
 Explain the functions of the hardware This includes communication links (fibre
required for a network. optics, microwave, Unshielded Twisted Pair
(UTP) cable, satellite, etc.), modem,
network interface card, network connecting
devices (switch and router, etc.).
The common industry standards for wireless
computer networks should be introduced to
students. Relevant concepts including
frequency, bandwidth, interference and
roaming, etc. are required.
 Compare common methods for Internet This includes connections in wireless and
access in terms of speed, cost, security broadband etc.
and availability.
 Understand the need for This includes simple concepts of TCP/IP.
communications software and
communication protocols.
22

=== PAGE 33 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Describe how data is transmitted over
the Internet and understand concepts of
Uniform Resource Locator (URL),
Domain Name System (DNS),
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
and Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
(HTTPS).
b. Internet Services and Applications  Formulate an effective strategy for
(5 hours) searching for specific information on the
Web by using search-engines, and
critically analyse the sources of
information.
 Identify various graphics, audio, video
file formats suitable for web pages.
Use plug-ins and players for the
multimedia elements found on the
Internet.
 Apply various services such as file
transfer, remote logon, online chat,
discussion forum and email on the
Internet.
 Describe the concepts of streaming Technical details of streaming technology
technology and its applications in voice are not required.
mail, videoconferencing, and
webcasting etc. on the Internet.
23

=== PAGE 34 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Value the significance of the Appreciation of the use of Internet
development and expansion of the applications for the improvement of human
Internet for various activities in society. life should be fostered among students. For
instance, smart city can be achieved with
Internet of things (IoT) and cloud services.
c. Elementary Web Authoring (3 hours)  Recognise the basic constructs of
Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)
which is a means to address
cross-platform issues.
 Discuss the organisation of web pages The organisation of information in the web
for an intended audience and upload pages includes ease of navigation,
them onto the World Wide Web. appropriate placement of links, tables,
frames and multimedia elements, colour
combinations, background design, font size
and style, for an intended audience.
Students are not required to memorise
HTML codes.
d. Threats and Security on the Internet  Describe the potential risks caused by The threats include virus, worm and Trojan
(14 hours) the common network security threats. programs, spyware, ransomware,
unauthorised access, interception, intrusion
via dynamic web pages and Denial of
Service (DoS) attack, etc.
24

=== PAGE 35 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Propose effective measures to improve The measures include browser setting,
network security. anti-virus software, authentication, access
and user right control, firewall, wireless
security protocol such as WPA, and Virtual
Private Network (VPN), etc.
 Discuss the possible privacy threats on Supported by crimes reported in the news,
the Internet, and suggest ways to violation of the secrecy of data as a result of
maintain privacy. eavesdropping, hacking, phishing,
spamming and junk mails etc. should all be
considered and discussed with students.
The ways to maintain privacy, such as
anonymity and passwords, should be
stressed.
Teachers can quote some of the legal
consequences related to unauthorised access
to computers.
 Be aware of information encryption This includes the basic concepts of data
technologies so as to prevent encryption, public and private key
eavesdropping and interception. encryption systems (e.g. Hong Kong Public
Key Infrastructure (PKI)), and the
relationship between the size of the key
used and the degree of security.
25

=== PAGE 36 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Explain authentication and authorisation Basic concepts include the authentication
as a means to control access of methods for individuals, types of tokens
information on the Internet. used in authentication processes, and the
procedures of authenticating a digitally
signed document by obtaining a digital
certificate of the signed body.
 Know about security used in electronic The concepts of Secure Sockets Layer
transactions. (SSL) in secured transmission in
e-commerce should be introduced.
Other security measures in online
transaction such as smart cards, security
tokens, digital certificates and mobile Short
Message Service (SMS) should also be
introduced.
 Be aware of the latest developments in
security measures.
26

=== PAGE 37 ===

D. Computational Thinking and Programming
Introduction
Computational Thinking (CT) is an approach to solving problems in a way that can be
implemented with a computer. Students become tool builders instead of tool users through a
set of concepts such as abstraction, algorithm and automation. This module is designed to
teach students how to go through a systematic process of thinking when solving problem
(abstraction), formulating steps for solutions (algorithmic thinking) and writing computer
program (programming/coding) to produce the solution.
Learning Objectives
Students will learn about:
 the systematic approach to problem-solving;
 the application of concepts of systematic problem-solving to real-life problems;
 the use of pseudocode and/or a program flowchart to represent the algorithm;
 creative design and development of computer programs;
 how to identify the objectives of an algorithm, trace the logical flow and examine values
of variables during execution; and
 various ways of solving the same problem, and the differences between them.
The time allocation for the module is about 48 hours.
Details
This module comprises four topics: “Problem-Formulation and Analysis”, “Algorithm
Design”, “Program Development” and “Program Testing and Debugging”. Details of the
four topics are summarised below:
27

=== PAGE 38 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
a. Problem-Formulation and Analysis  Define a problem and its scope.
(5 hours)
 Analyse a problem by identifying Examples:
required inputs and outputs as well as  Calculate interest on mortgages and list
stating the processes required. the instalments
 Find the Body Mass Index (BMI) to
monitor healthy weight
 Program a robot to detect and trace
lines
 Solve a problem by decomposing them The sub-problems, for instance, may
into smaller and manageable represent the input, process and output of the
sub-problem. solution to the problem.
 Identify common elements across similar Example:
problems.  Identify the patterns of methods for
sorting the height of a group of students
in ascending order and then modify the
methods to sort the weight of a group
of students in descending order.
 Identify the patterns of methods for
programming a robot to move in a
square and then modify the programs to
let the robot move in other polygons.
28

=== PAGE 39 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
b. Algorithm Design (12 hours)  Perform a dry run of a set of steps to
determine its purpose and/or output.
 Define algorithm. Use pseudocode and
program flowchart as methods for
representing algorithms.
 Outline and discuss the input and output
requirements of a problem, and design
an appropriate user interface.
 Recognise the uses and nature of simple Simple data types are restricted to integer,
data types and data structures in solving real, character and Boolean while simple
a problem. data structures are limited to string and
one-dimensional array. Boolean logic
(AND, OR, NOT) and truth tables should be
introduced.
 Select appropriate data types for the
solution to a particular problem and
discuss the merit of the chosen types.
 Design and construct standard The control structures are sequence,
algorithms involving basic control selection (binary and multi-way) and
structures. iteration.
29

=== PAGE 40 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Create and examine algorithms such as
to load and print an array, and to add or
delete an item from an array.
 Produce a trace table to show values of
variables at each stage in a set of steps.
 Locate logic error in an algorithm and
correct it.
 Modify an algorithm for changes in task
specification.
 Describe the advantages of modularity in When designing a solution to a complex
designing computer solutions. problem, students should be encouraged
habitually to use the modular approach to
structure the algorithm.
c. Program Development (20 hours)  Understand and use variables, constants,
and simple lists (one-dimensional array)
in different problem contexts.
30

=== PAGE 41 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Use operators, expressions, assignment Examples of arithmetic operators include
statements, input and output statements. addition, subtraction, multiplication,
division, and modulus.
Examples of relational operators include
equal to, not equal to, greater than, greater
than or equal to, less than and less than or
equal to.
Examples of Boolean expression include
AND, OR and NOT.
 Understand and use sequence, selection
and iteration (nested loop is not
required) constructs to create a program
 Produce a programming solution for a Examples:
given problem.  Find the minimum, maximum and
average values in a list
 Search for an item in a list and report
the result of the search
 Find the length of a string of characters
 Extract required characters from a
string of characters
 Count the number of items, which meet
specified criteria in a list
 Check if the values in a list are in order
 Use of mathematical formulas
31

=== PAGE 42 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
d. Program Testing and Debugging  Apply data validation check to design Students need to identify boundary cases.
(11 hours) appropriate test data.
 Understand and describe types of
program errors: syntax, logic and
run-time; explain why they occur and
debug them.
 Compare different solutions to the same Comparison of the steps of operation and
problem. resource usage of different programs to
solve the same problem should be
encouraged.
32

=== PAGE 43 ===

E. Social Implications
Introduction
This module provides students with an understanding, and ethical analysis, of various issues
arising from the use of ICT. These issues have economic, legal, social, ethical and security
consequences. Students should be given experience in discussing and debating these issues
to develop the analytical and interpretive skills required to construct their own normative
practices in the use of ICT. This module encourages students to act in a socially responsible,
ethical and legal way in using the technologies throughout their studies, careers and other
areas of their lives.
Although these issues are introduced specifically in this module, they should also be
re-considered and re-addressed in various other parts of the course as a means to strengthen
students’ awareness of them.
Learning Objectives
Students will learn about:
 basic concepts of technological innovations;
 equity issues relating to access to ICT;
 ethical considerations on the use of ICT;
 health hazards and preventive measures in using ICT; and
 major issues regarding intellectual property and privacy.
The time allocation for the module is about 8 hours.
Details
This module comprises three topics: “Technological Innovations”, “Health and Ethical
Issues” and “Intellectual Property”. Details of the three topics are summarised below:
33

=== PAGE 44 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
a. Technological Innovations (3 hours)  Understand the basic concepts of Examples include pattern recognition
technological innovations and its through artificial intelligence (AI) and data
applications. science, 3D printing technologies,
augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality
(VR).
Students should have practical experience
with these technologies.
b. Health and Ethical Issues (3 hours)  Identify health hazards associated with In ergonomics, consideration includes the
the use of ICT, and propose good reduction of injuries which arise from
ergonomic practices when using them. repetitive strain injury (RSI), the suitable
design and placement of the furniture, the
design of the software (with
user-friendliness features such as ease of use
and a consistent user interface) and work
environment.
 Realise the importance of equity of access. Students should state the pros and cons of
freedom of information on the Internet. They
should also know equity issues in terms of
the digital divide, gender equity and access
for the disabled from local and global
perspectives.
 Discuss the ethical considerations on the
use of ICT.
34

=== PAGE 45 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
c. Intellectual Property (2 hours)  Understand the basic ideas of intellectual
property and copyright.
 Understand the benefits and risks of
different licensing schemes such as
freeware, shareware, open source
software and copyrighted software from
the perspectives of users and software
developers.
 Relate acts of possible infringement of Students should discuss the social, legal and
copyright in software and Internet economic implications of acts of
piracy. infringement of copyright. They should also
develop the habit of acknowledging the
source of information and be aware of the
appropriate use of multimedia materials, and
the possible crimes and consequences of
illegal uses and broadcasting of these
materials.
 Be aware of ways to reduce intellectual Examples of measures are the use of a
property theft on digital property. digital watermark and digital signature.
 Know some of the legal consequences, Teachers can quote some of the legal
especially in education, related to the consequences related to infringement of
infringement of copyright in Hong copyright.
Kong.
35

=== PAGE 46 ===

(Blank Page)
36

=== PAGE 47 ===

2.3.2 The Elective Part
The Elective Part comprises three options. Students should take two of them.
A. Databases
Introduction
This option is designed to provide students with the fundamental concepts of databases and
relational database design. Students will learn how to construct simple data models using
Entity Relationship (ER) diagrams and to appreciate the importance of good database design.
They will also learn to use SQL to construct, manipulate and retrieve information from a
relational database. In addition, students will be exposed to database security, integrity, and
data privacy issues. Through studying this option, students will acquire a basic
understanding of the concepts, skills and applications of databases, and elementary data
modelling concepts.
Students should have acquired the necessary knowledge and skills in the Compulsory Part –
module A Information Processing before progressing to this option.
The sub-topics under topic (a) “Relational Databases Concepts” in the present option are
designed as extensions of topic (b) “Data Organisation and Data Control” in the Compulsory
Part – module A Information Processing.
Learning Objectives
Students will learn about:
 concepts and applications related to databases and the DBMS;
 the basic concepts of a relational database, and the construction, manipulation and
extraction of information from a relational database using SQL;
 the construction of simple data models using the ER diagrams methodology;
 the importance of good database design as a blueprint for the development of a database
management system; and
 the importance of data privacy and measures for its improvement.
The time allocation for the option is about 38 hours.
Details
The option Databases comprises three topics: “Relational Databases Concepts”, “SQL”, and
“Database Design Methodology”. Details of the three topics are summarised below:
37

=== PAGE 48 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
a. Relational Databases Concepts  Describe the basic concepts of relational It includes entity, relationship, attribute,
(6 hours) databases. domain, index, key (such as primary key,
foreign key and candidate key), and integrity
(such as entity integrity, referential integrity
and domain integrity). Students should be
able to identify these basic elements in
examples taken from everyday applications.
 Create a simple relational database. Students should know how to organise data
differently but sensibly in a relational
database and be able to establish the
required relationships among the tables.
 Describe the purposes of rollback.
38

=== PAGE 49 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
b. SQL (18 hours)  Use SQL to maintain a simple relational Skills involved include:
database, and manipulate its data or  modify the structure of the tables
retrieve the required information in at  add, delete and modify the data in the
most three tables. tables
 view, sort, and select contents by
filtering, and create different views
 use appropriate operators and
expressions such as arithmetic operators
and expressions, comparison operators,
logical operators and the in, between and
like operators to perform specific
operations
 use simple built-in functions such as
aggregate and string functions
 perform queries on multiple tables,
including the use of equi-join, natural
join and outer join
 perform sub-queries (for one sub-level
only)
c. Database Design Methodology  Be aware of the different types of
(14 hours) relationships among entities in a
relational database.
 Analyse simple scenarios in business, The resolution of many-to-many relationship
education or other fields and create into multiple one-to-many relationships
simple ER diagrams involving binary should also be introduced.
relationship only in designing databases.
39

=== PAGE 50 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Explain the concepts of data redundancy Students should be able to reduce data
and discuss the methods or measures redundancy through normalisation up to
used to reduce data redundancy. Third Normal Form (3NF).
 Describe the needs and procedures of
denormalisation.
 Transform the ER diagrams to tables in
relational databases.
 Use access rights to achieve data privacy.
40

=== PAGE 51 ===

Symbols used in ER diagrams
Meaning Symbol
Entity Entity
Attribute Attribute
Key Attribute Attribute
Relationship Relationship
1 1
One-to-One Relationship Relationship
1 M
One-to-Many Relationship Relationship
M N
Many-to-Many Relationship Relationship
Participation constraints:
- Use on Mandatory side Relationship
- Use on Optional side
41

=== PAGE 52 ===

(Blank Page)
42

=== PAGE 53 ===

B. Web Application Development
Introduction
This option is designed to provide students an understanding of the basic concepts of network
services and client-server communications, and the knowledge and skills associated with the
set up and implementation of a simple network with different services. It provides them with
useful and practical knowledge related to web authoring and web application development.
This includes the learning of writing scripts on client-side and server-side, and developing
simple web applications.
Students should have acquired the necessary knowledge and skills in the Compulsory Part –
module C Internet and its Applications before progressing to this option.
All the sub-topics under topics (a) “Network Services and Implementation” and (b) “Web
Programming and Applications” in the present option are designed as extensions of topics (a)
“Networking and Internet Basics” and (c) “Elementary Web Authoring” in the Compulsory
Part – module C Internet and its Applications.
Learning Objectives
Students will learn about:
 the basic concepts of network services;
 the implementation of a simple computer network;
 web authoring and publishing;
 writing client-side and server-side scripts; and
 developing simple web applications.
The time allocation for the option is about 38 hours.
Details
The option Web Application Development comprises two topics: “Network Services and
Implementation” and “Web Programming and Applications”. Details of the two topics are
summarised below:
43

=== PAGE 54 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
a. Network Services and Implementation (14 hours)
i. Basic concepts of client-server  Know the basic concepts of client-server This comprises the concepts of request and
communication communication. response, including port numbers in TCP,
and GET and POST requests in HTTP.
 Know the roles of client and server as
two network programs in a network.
 Describe the services provided by The common network servers include the
common network servers. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
(DHCP) server, domain controller, file
server, proxy server, web server, database
server, gateway, etc.
ii. Basic network implementation  Set up simple Ethernet and wireless Examples of simple networks include home
networks. networks and ad hoc networks in small
exhibitions and special events.
 Share various resources among the The resources include files, printers and
networked computers/workstations. Internet connection, etc.
 Set folder/ file-sharing permissions,
including read, write and execute rights,
etc.
 Set up simple network services. Examples of network services include web
service and database service.
44

=== PAGE 55 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
b. Web Programming and Applications (24 hours)
i. Web authoring and publishing  Edit web pages. Students should be able to edit HTML code
of web pages and apply a consistent look
and style across a set of web pages through
Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).
 Publish content on web. Students should know different ways for
publishing content on the web. For example,
building a website and posting content
through a web-based content management
system.
ii. Web programming and applications  Understand the difference between
server-side and client-side technologies.
 Create client interfaces. Students should be able to create client
interfaces in form of web page and
application.
45

=== PAGE 56 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Demonstrate simple client-side and Examples:
server-side scripts.  Process input data from clients (e.g.
calculation on quadratic equation)
 Simple data validation (e.g. check the
range of numeric input)
 Retrieve and update data from a single
database table
 Use of Cookies for storing of user
information
 Develop a simple web application. Students should be able to integrate
client-side and server-side scripts to develop
the application.
Examples:
 Search engine on restaurants in a
shopping mall
 Homework checklist for a class
 Personal weight management system
 Be aware of the new trends in web
application development.
46

=== PAGE 57 ===

C. Algorithm and Programming
Introduction
This option is designed to provide students with further programming concepts, and to
develop their problem-solving skills through a systematic approach to algorithm design and
programming, as well as to improve their logical thinking and critical thinking skills.
Students will be able to design and develop computer programs independently for solving
problems and interacting with physical devices. They will also be exposed to various
principles and techniques of algorithm design. This understanding will offer students a
wider choice from which to think and select an appropriate approach to solve a specific
problem in future.
Students should have acquired the necessary knowledge and skills in the Compulsory Part –
module D Computational Thinking and Programming before progressing to this option.
The sub-topics “Design of solution and Implementation” and “Testing and debugging” under
topic (a) “Programming” in the present option are designed as extensions of sub-topics
“Problem Formulation and Problem-Solving”, “Algorithm design”, “Program Development”
and “Program Testing and Debugging” in module D Computational Thinking and
Programming.
Learning Objectives
Students will learn about:
 the importance of good programming skills and good programming styles;
 the importance of formulating appropriate algorithms in solving problems;
 creative design and development of computer programs; and
 how to write programs to solve real-life problems.
The time allocation for the option is about 38 hours.
Details
The option Algorithm and Programming comprises two topics: “Programming” and
“Applications of Programming in Real Life”. Details of the two topics are summarised
below:
47

=== PAGE 58 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
a. Programming (32 hours)
i. Design of solution and  Select appropriate data types for a The data types include simple data types,
implementation (28 hours) solution. structured data types and user-defined data
types. Simple data types have been
discussed in the Compulsory Part.
 Review algorithms with flowcharts or
pseudocode.
 Apply algorithms of counting, The search algorithms include linear search
accumulating, swapping, searching, and binary search. The sorting algorithms
sorting and merging in writing programs. include bubble sort, insertion sort and
selection sort. Students should realise that
there are other faster sorting algorithms, say
merge sort and quick sort. Merging
involves only two arrays of data at one time.
 Choose an appropriate algorithm for a Students should be aware that a problem
task. may be solved by several different
algorithms. The selection of algorithms
sometimes depends on their complexities
and data structures as well as their trade-off.
Students should evaluate the algorithm with
respect to efficiency, correctness and
appropriateness for a task.
48

=== PAGE 59 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Apply various basic constructs in a Students should be able to use global
solution. variables, local variables, constants,
assignment statements, input statements,
output statements, arithmetic operators,
string operators, Boolean operators and
Boolean logic, and operations of the
operators including precedence and
association.
 Apply control structures in a solution. Sequence, selection and iteration have been
introduced in the Compulsory Part. Nested
loop is required.
 Construct lists, stacks and queues in Students should be able to create and
terms of arrays. manipulate linear linked lists, stacks and
queues in terms of arrays.
 Manipulate text files through file- The manipulation involves file updating
handling statements. statements to delete, insert, append and
amend records.
 Implement parameters passing in
manipulating sub-programs.
 Realise the importance of good Students should develop the habit of using
programming styles. meaningful variable names, comments,
annotations, space and indentation.
49

=== PAGE 60 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Appraise the use of structured
programming to design, implement, and
debug errors.
ii. Testing and debugging (4 hours)  Interpret errors. The numerical errors included are rounding
errors, truncation errors, overflow errors and
underflow errors. Other errors are syntax
errors, logical errors and run-time errors.
 Apply both manual methods and Use stubs, flags, break points and program
software debugging tools to program traces with test data set for debugging.
debugging.
b. Applications of Programming in Real Life (6 hours)
 Use extended programming modules or Students should be able to use extended
libraries in writing programs to interact modules or libraries for capturing data from
with physical devices. sensors (e.g. light sensor and accelerometer)
and controlling specific devices (e.g. motor).
Details of extended modules or libraries are
not required.
50

=== PAGE 61 ===

Topic Learning Outcomes Remarks
 Use event handlers in writing event-driven Specific events include user actions (e.g.
programs. pressing a button) and sensor values (e.g. the
reading from the light sensor is over a
defined value).
Details of event handlers are not required.
 Construct simple programs on physical Examples include generating a text display
devices by using features/components of by speech recognition, controlling the
physical devices like speech recognition movement of motors and detecting motion
and accelerometer. by accelerometer.
51

=== PAGE 62 ===

(Blank Page)
52

=== PAGE 63 ===

Chapter 3 Curriculum Planning
This chapter provides guidelines to help schools and teachers to develop a flexible and
balanced curriculum that suits the needs, interests and abilities of their students, and the
contexts of their school in accordance with the central framework provided in Chapter 2.
3.1 Guiding Principles
One aim of the senior secondary curriculum is to widen the knowledge base of every student
while at the same time enabling learning in depth in some subjects to prepare for further
study. Schools should develop and provide a broad and balanced school-based curriculum.
Careful curriculum planning not only facilitates student learning, but also cultivates generic
skills and positive values and attitudes. TE is one of the eight KLAs that each student is
entitled to study in the senior secondary curriculum.
In the modern world, our personal and social values are shaped through interaction with
technology, and the effects appear to be multiplying rapidly as new and more powerful
technologies become part of our lives. Students who choose to study TE elective subjects in
the senior secondary curriculum will acquire the ability to intervene creatively in the
man-made world by designing and making artefacts (either tools, products or services) and by
assessing their social impact. The study of TE KLA is an effective platform for nurturing
students’ skills in collaboration, communication, creativity, critical thinking, problem-solving,
and IT.
Most TE KLA electives require equipment, software, storage, and material. In most schools,
the existing facilities are considered adequate for offering the electives. Schools should focus
on the interests, needs, and abilities of their students in planning their school-based curricula.
Where schools anticipate problems associated with low enrolment, they may consider
collaborating with other schools to form networked classes for the electives.
Careful curriculum planning not only facilitates student learning, but should also aim to
cultivate generic skills and positive values and attitudes. In planning the senior secondary
ICT curriculum, teachers need to understand students’ prior knowledge in ICT, their needs
and interests in addition to the requirements of the Compulsory Part, and the differences
among the elective options. Noted below are some guiding principles that teachers should
take into account in the curriculum planning process:
 Curriculum planning starts at the junior secondary level where teachers will have ample
opportunities to know what students have achieved in the area of ICT and help them to
identify their interests so that they choose the appropriate elective options to further their
study in specific areas of ICT;
 Learning is made more meaningful by introducing authentic tasks and scenarios; and
appropriate life-wide learning experiences;
 Topics are not to be taught in isolation. Appropriate integration of curriculum areas is
encouraged;
 Learning is not confined to time-tabled lessons. Schools should make use of learning
opportunities beyond the classroom to maximise learning effectiveness;
 Teachers are encouraged to work together as a team to plan the senior secondary ICT
53

=== PAGE 64 ===

curriculum, to develop learning materials, activities and tasks, and to collaborate with
teachers of other KLAs on cross-curricular projects;
 Teachers are encouraged to make flexible use of class time to facilitate learning (e.g.
single periods for theoretical topics, and double or triple periods for practical tasks.); and
 Teachers are encouraged to make use of both formative assessment (e.g. portfolios and
projects) and summative assessment to inform learning and teaching.
3.2 Progression
The senior secondary ICT curriculum is designed to enable students to explore their interests,
potential and aspirations for further studies and careers. It is built upon students’ prior
knowledge and skills in their computer literacy studies from primary through junior
secondary. By including a variety of different topics in the teaching of ICT in S4, students
will have a “taster” year to make informed decisions on suitable combinations of elective
subjects to be studied from S5 onwards.
To help students achieve the curriculum aims and objectives, schools should feel free to vary
the organisation and teaching sequence of learning elements. In practice, most schools will
teach the core modules prior to the options. However, some schools may start teaching the
options immediately after the related core module is covered. Experience in handling students
with very different ICT knowledge and skills in transition from Primary 6 to S1, and from S3
to S4, indicates that the transition does not cause any major problems where planning has
allowed for different levels of achievement. Students who wish to start studying ICT in S5
will need to spend some extra time on the subject during the first few months of S5 to
develop the fundamental knowledge and skills they missed in S4. In considering curriculum
planning for ICT, the prior concern is to put in place something that will benefit students as
much as possible.
The following examples give some suggestions as to how to organise the learning elements
and teaching sequence of the ICT curriculum. The examples are for reference only. Schools
should develop their own school-based curriculum plan.
54

=== PAGE 65 ===

Case 1 ICT Curriculum Planning in ABC Secondary School
Background
This school plans to offer four core subjects – Chinese, English, Mathematics and
Citizenship and Social Development, and three elective subjects, including ICT, to their
senior secondary students. The total curriculum time for ICT is 250 hours. For
illustrative purposes, 97, 97 and 56 hours are allocated to the teaching of ICT in S4, S5 and
S6 respectively.
Rationale
1) Learning spreadsheet, web authoring tools and Internet services in the Information
Processing and Internet and its Applications modules at an early stage of the ICT
curriculum can equip students with the necessary knowledge and skill sets to complete
the project work. Also, these practical skills are essential enabling skills to facilitate
students’ self-directed learning. In addition, the Computer System Fundamentals
module provides the foundation knowledge on computers necessary for students to study
the more in-depth topics in the ICT curriculum.
2) Related modules in the Compulsory Part are taught in S4 to give students more
understanding of the nature and contents of the options in the Elective Part. This will
help students in choosing two options as they progress to S5 and S6.
3) Curriculum time for SBA should be allocated flexibly and appropriately in S5 and S6, to
provide continuous feedback to students to enhance learning effectiveness.
4) Since the Elective Part is taught in the second half of S5, this arrangement has the
shortcoming of giving students a shorter time span to focus on their project work.
55

=== PAGE 66 ===

Teaching Sequence and Time Allocation
Curriculum Time Level Compulsory Part Elective Part SBA
IP (37 hours)
CSF (20 hours)
97 hours S4
I&A (31 hours)
CTP (48 hours)
97 hours S5
SI (8 hours)
SBA
(30 hours)
Two of the
three options
(76 hours)
56 hours S6
Notes : IP Information Processing
CSF Computer System Fundamentals
I&A Internet and its Applications
CTP Computational Thinking and Programming
SI Social Implications
SBA School-based Assessment
56

=== PAGE 67 ===

Case 2 ICT Curriculum Planning in DEF Secondary School
Background
As in ABC Secondary School in Case 1, DEF Secondary School plans to offer four core
subjects – Chinese, English, Mathematics and Citizenship and Social Development, and
three elective subjects, including ICT, to the senior secondary students. The total
curriculum time for ICT is 250 hours. For illustrative purposes, 97, 97 and 56 hours are
allocated to the teaching of ICT in S4, S5 and S6 respectively. However, this school
introduces a variation in the teaching sequence. The options Databases and Algorithm and
Programming are taught immediately after the related compulsory modules have been
completed.
Rationale
1) The main advantage of this teaching sequence is that students learn related knowledge and
skills in a sequential and structured manner instead of in separate parts. Mapping of
related modules in the Compulsory Part and in the options in the Elective Part is shown
below.
Compulsory Modules Related Options
Information Processing → Databases
Internet and its Applications → Web Application Development
Computational Thinking and Programming → Algorithm and Programming
2) Since the Elective Part is taught at an early stage of the curriculum, students will have a
longer time span for their project work in S5 and S6.
3) Curriculum time for SBA should be allocated flexibly and appropriately in S5 and S6, to
provide continuous feedback to students to enhance learning effectiveness.
4) Only a portion of the Compulsory Part of the curriculum is taught in S4. Students may
not have a sufficient overview of the whole curriculum to enable them to choose
appropriate options in the Elective Part.
57

=== PAGE 68 ===

Teaching Sequence and Time Allocation
Curriculum Time Level Compulsory Part Elective Part SBA
IP (37 hours)
97 hours S4
Databases
(38 hours)
CTP (48 hours)
97 hours S5 Algorithm and
Programming
(38 hours) SBA
(30 hours)
CSF (20 hours)
I&A (31 hours)
56 hours S6
SI (8 hours)
Notes : IP Information Processing
CSF Computer System Fundamentals
I&A Internet and its Applications
CTP Computational Thinking and Programming
SI Social Implications
SBA School-based Assessment
58

=== PAGE 69 ===

Case 3 ICT Curriculum Planning in GHI Secondary School
Background
1) This school plans to offer four core subjects – Chinese, English, Mathematics and
Citizenship and Social Development, and four elective subjects, including ICT, to the
senior secondary students to give them a taste of various subjects. Students may
choose three elective subjects from S5 onwards.
2) The total curriculum time for ICT is 250 hours. For illustrative purposes, 74, 120 and
56 hours are allocated to the teaching of ICT in S4, S5 and S6 respectively.
Rationale
1) The topics taught in S4 should be interesting and practical enough to arouse students’
interest. To this end, topics such as “Introduction to Information Processing” and
“Data Manipulation and Analysis” from the Information Processing module are chosen.
(The Internet and its Applications module is also a good choice for teaching in S4.)
2) The knowledge and skills of ICT taught in S4 are transferable to other subjects even if
students opt not to study ICT from S5 onwards.
3) The related modules from the Compulsory Part are taught in S4 to give students more
understanding of the nature and content of the options in the Elective Part. This will
help students in choosing one of the options as they progress to S5 and S6.
4) Curriculum time for SBA should be allocated flexibly and appropriately in S5 and S6, to
provide continuous feedback to students to enhance learning effectiveness.
5) As fewer topics are covered in S4, schools need to allocate more time to cover the
whole curriculum in S5 and S6.
59

=== PAGE 70 ===

Teaching Sequence and Time Allocation
Curriculum Time Level Compulsory Part Elective Part SBA
IP (37 hours)
74 hours S4
CSF (20 hours)
I&A (31 hours)
CTP (48 hours)
120 hours S5
SI (8hours)
SBA
(30 hours)
Two of the
three options
(76 hours)
56 hours S6
Notes : IP Information Processing
CSF Computer System Fundamentals
I&A Internet and its Applications
CTP Computational Thinking and Programming
SI Social Implications
SBA School-based Assessment
60

=== PAGE 71 ===

3.3 Curriculum Planning Strategies
3.3.1 For Students of Different Abilities and Inclinations
In junior secondary, the emphasis of TE is on “Exploration, Experiences and Familiarisation”.
After completing the Computer Literacy course, students should have a broad and balanced
knowledge of computer technologies; and a basis on which to make informed decisions as to
their choice of options in their senior secondary ICT studies.
In senior secondary, the emphasis of TE is on “Exploring Orientations for Lifelong Learning
and Specialisation”. To cater for the varied abilities and inclinations of students, the senior
secondary ICT curriculum provides three options in the Elective Part:
 Databases
 Web Application Development
 Algorithm and Programming
The design of the Elective Part aims to provide students with a range of choices. Students are
encouraged to choose the options that matches their interests, their intended post-secondary
studies or career aspirations. Teachers should refer to Section 2.3 for more details on the
structure and organisation of the senior secondary ICT curriculum.
Students have a variety of learning styles: some learn best by reading, or by watching others
perform, while some prefer “learning by doing” The Elective Part in the senior secondary
ICT curriculum provides students with a choice of more in-depth theoretical or more in-depth
applied learning.
For instance, Web Application Development has a heavier emphasis on applied learning and is
suited to students who learn better in a practical way.
Students who are interested in studying information retrieval in a systematic way, may find
the option Databases interesting, as they can learn how to apply database theories in
daily-life situations
Those who are problem-solvers and are keen on carrying out projects using computers may
consider selecting Algorithm and Programming which focuses on solving problems and
developing solutions.
Overall, students are advised to choose options in their areas of strength, so that they will be
more motivated and confident learners. Schools can decide on the number of options to be
offered, based on the needs of their students and consideration of practical constraints such as
the teachers’ capacities and time-tabling.
61

=== PAGE 72 ===

3.3.2 Making Student Learning More Meaningful
Technology is best learnt within a context that includes application. Activities, problems and
projects that replicate real-life situations are effective in helping students to make sense of
why they need to learn technology. To enhance students’ learning of ICT, teachers and
schools are encouraged to consider adopting the following strategies in curriculum planning:
(a) Designing Authentic Experiences
Knowledge is constructed through rich and authentic learning experiences. The use of
authentic situations not only provides meaningful contexts for students to develop their
potential for creativity and problem-solving, but also gives them opportunities to reflect on
the values they hold, and to express their own views and have them challenged in real
situations. Two examples to illustrate how authentic situations can be integrated into learning
and teaching are provided below.
Example 1: Community service project
To make students’ ICT learning more meaningful, schools can involve them in community
service, such as repairing computers for the elderly and disadvantaged groups. In addition
to being authentic tasks in which they can practise the IT skills they have learnt, serving
others helps to develop personal values. In the process, students engage in learning how to
see the needs of others, experience empathy and sympathy, and take appropriate action to
help to improve the quality of life. Students also develop a sense of responsibility,
commitment, and sometimes perseverance or resilience, when there are barriers to be
overcome. On completing a community service project, students gain satisfaction from
what they have achieved, and develop confidence for further service and more challenging
tasks in the future. In this way, authentic tasks foster values education.
Other authentic tasks may include designing class web pages and setting up a database for
the alumni association.
Example 2: Reading authentic materials
Everyday authentic materials outside the classroom, such as newspapers, magazines and
websites, can be used to make the learning of relevant topics more meaningful. For
example, students may be asked to take turns in posting news / journal articles about
current network security issues on bulletin boards or display booths; and they may also
post their views about the articles and propose improvements. To promote discussion,
teachers may also host forums for students, e.g. at the end of a school term, students might
debate and then vote for the top three network security threats. “Reading to learn”
activities can make students more aware of recent trends and developments. Also, in the
process of evaluating various network security risks and their solutions, students’ critical
thinking skills will be nurtured.
62

=== PAGE 73 ===

(b) Engaging in Life-wide Learning
Life-wide learning refers to student learning in settings outside the classroom. As a subject
that emphasises both theoretical and applied learning, the study of ICT should not be
confined to the classroom. There are many possible ways in which students can “learn by
doing” in real contexts and through interactions with people from different sectors.
Example 1: Visits to different IT organisations
When teaching the multimedia-related elements, schools can arrange for their students to
visit different ICT organisations, such as Cyberport. This kind of activity can help students
to understand the application of technology in their daily lives. Professionals and experts
from ICT fields can also be invited to give talks and conduct activities in schools.
Example 2: Participation in IT-oriented competitions
Schools can encourage students to participate in ICT-oriented competitions, such as the
Hong Kong Olympiad in Informatics (HKOI). These competitions offer opportunities for
students to apply the knowledge and skills they have acquired from learning programming
and software development-related topics.
3.4 Curriculum Management
3.4.1 Areas of Work
In managing the school-based ICT curriculum, teachers should:
(a) Understand the Curriculum and Learning Context
 Understand the Technology Education Key Learning Area Curriculum Guide (CDC,
2017) and the Senior Secondary Information and Communication Technology
Curriculum and Assessment Guide (CDC, 2007) (with updates in January 2021) with
a view to adapting the central curriculum in school-based curriculum development;
 Understand the school’s vision and mission, strengths and policies, as well as
students’ abilities and interests; and
 Understand the community culture and the changing needs of society.
(b) Plan and Implement the Curriculum
 Design and implement schemes of work to help students achieve the curriculum aims
and learning targets of the senior secondary ICT curriculum; and
 Design modes of assessment and tasks to promote assessment for learning.
(c) Evaluate the Curriculum
 Review the senior secondary ICT curriculum and teaching and learning on a regular
basis through collecting data from different sources, analysing student learning, and
making adjustments whenever necessary.
63

=== PAGE 74 ===

(d) Develop Resources
 Develop, collect and organise learning and teaching resources and allow students to
access them whenever needed;
 Make effective use of schools and community resources to facilitate student learning
of ICT; and
 Expand and share learning and teaching resources by exploiting the use of an
e-learning platform.
(For more ideas on learning and teaching resources, please refer to Chapter 6 “Learning
and Teaching Resources”.)
(e) Build Capacity
 Keep abreast of the latest curriculum development, teaching strategies, subject
knowledge and advances in technology; and
 Build face to face and electronic networks with other schools, and conduct peer lesson
observations to foster mutual support and share the best practices in delivering the
ICT curriculum.
3.4.2 Roles of Different School Personnel
Managing the ICT curriculum efficiently to promote effective learning and teaching requires
a clear division of duties and collaboration among ICT teachers, TE KLA co-ordinator / ICT
panel chairperson and the school head, who have different roles in the planning, development
and implementation of the school-based ICT curriculum.
(a) ICT Teachers
To help in implementing the school-based ICT curriculum, ICT teachers are encouraged
to:
 acquaint themselves fully with the structure, organisation and learning targets of the
curriculum;
 help students to identify their specific area(s) of interest in ICT;
 explain clearly to students the overall aims, learning targets, and expectations of the
school-based ICT curriculum;
 foster an active learning environment for students, strengthen their skills in learning
how to learn, and help to develop their full potential in learning ICT;
 initiate the sharing of teaching ideas, knowledge and experiences to foster peer
collaboration, support and professional exchange to improve the learning and teaching
of ICT;
 keep abreast of the latest developments in ICT curricula and innovations in ICT; and
 participate actively in professional development courses, workshops, seminars, etc. to
enhance professionalism.
64

=== PAGE 75 ===

(b) TE KLA Co-ordinator / ICT Panel Chairperson
TE KLA co-ordinator / ICT panel chairperson steers and co-ordinates the development
and management of the school-based ICT curriculum, and monitors its implementation.
He/she also serves as a “bridge” between the school administration and ICT panel
members. TE KLA co-ordinator / ICT panel chairperson should lead the panel to:
 set a clear direction and plan for its own school-based ICT curriculum;
 decide on which modules to offer in the Elective Part, taking into account students’
needs, interests and prior knowledge in ICT, as well as teachers’ strengths and
practical constraints;
 collect and analyse evidence of students’ learning to make informed decisions in
curriculum planning and instruction;
 monitor the implementation of the curriculum, and make appropriate adjustments in
strategies for learning and teaching; and
 manage and use the learning and teaching resources, including hardware, software
and computer rooms, systematically and effectively.
To facilitate coordination and collaboration among panel members, TE KLA co-ordinator
/ ICT panel chairperson is encouraged to:
 appoint level co-ordinators and work closely with them to ensure coherence in
planning, instruction and collaboration among teachers;
 hold regular meetings (both formal and informal) to discuss matters such as schemes
of work and choice of textbooks, and to explore curriculum strategies to enhance the
quality of learning and teaching;
 promote professional exchange on subject knowledge, learning and teaching strategies
by means of peer coaching and lesson observation, collaborative lesson preparation
and team teaching;
 encourage panel members to participate in professional development courses,
workshops, seminars, etc.; and
 make the best use of the resources available in school.
65

=== PAGE 76 ===

(c) School Head
School head takes the leading role in planning, directing and supporting school-based
curriculum development. With regard to ICT, he/she must understand the needs of the
students, the strength of the ICT panel and the organisational culture of the school. School
head is encouraged to work closely with deputy head(s)/academic master(s) to carry out
the following functions:
 Understand students’ needs, strengths and interests, as well as the significance of
learning ICT in their whole-person development;
 Understand the strengths of teachers, and assist the TE KLA co-ordinator / ICT panel
chairperson to deploy teachers flexibly to teach the Compulsory and Elective Parts of
the curriculum;
 Co-ordinate the work of KLA leaders and subject panels, and set clear targets in
curriculum development and management;
 Provide support for trying out new initiatives in the learning and teaching of the ICT
curriculum (e.g. flexible time-tabling to facilitate collaborative teaching and peer
lesson observation among teachers; and flexible grouping of students for topics of
different kinds);
 Convey a clear message to parents regarding the significance of ICT education; and
 Network with other schools to facilitate professional exchange of information and
sharing of good practices.
66

=== PAGE 77 ===

Chapter 4 Learning and Teaching
This chapter provides guidelines and suggestions for effective learning and teaching of the
ICT curriculum. It is to be read in conjunction with Booklet 3 in the Secondary Education
Curriculum Guide (CDC, 2017), which provides the basis for the suggestions about learning
and teaching set out below.
4.1 Guiding Principles
The following section outlines the rationale and guiding principles for effective learning and
teaching in ICT.
 Knowledge: Knowledge exists in different forms and contexts. Some knowledge is
established while some is dynamically changing and contextualised. In order to be
useful, all knowledge has to be constructed by the learners;
 Learning: Learning takes place in different ways. Knowledge can be acquired from
instruction and reading the literature. Knowledge can also be learnt through experience
followed by reflection. Finally it can be learnt through collaborative interaction with
others;
 Understanding the learning targets: Each learning activity should be designed with
learning targets which are clear to both teachers and students;
 Teaching for understanding: The pedagogies chosen should aim at enabling students to
understand what they are learning rather than just to memorise it;
 Building on prior knowledge and experience: The learning activities should be planned
with the prior knowledge and experience of students in mind;
 Using a wide range of pedagogies: A range of learning and teaching approaches and
activities should be designed to suit different purposes and students’ various learning
styles, so that effective learning can be achieved by all;
 Promoting interaction: Teachers need to bring about interaction in which students can
explore what they know and don’t know, and try out ideas. Teachers should use
open-ended questions that get students thinking and offering views, so that students can
learn from each other;
 Promoting independent learning: Generic skills and reflection can be nurtured through
learning activities in appropriate contexts of the curriculum. Students should be
encouraged to take responsibility for their own learning;
 Using formative assessment: Assessment activities should be designed to collect and
provide information to improve learning and teaching;
 Effective use of resources: Various types of teaching resources should be employed as
tools for learning;
67

=== PAGE 78 ===

 Enhancing motivation: Learning takes place best when students are motivated to learn.
Appropriate motivation strategies should be used to arouse the interest of students;
 Maximising engagement: In conducting learning activities, it is important for all
students to be mentally engaged in each activity; and
 Catering for learner diversity: Learners have different characteristics and strengths.
Teachers should employ various strategies to cater for such learner diversity, for example
by establishing a learning community in which learners of varied ability support each
other’s learning.
The learning and teaching of the senior secondary ICT curriculum should aim to: enhance
students’ capacity for learning to learn; develop their potential to the full by using a variety of
pedagogical approaches; and enhance their motivation through appropriate target-setting
which enables them to improve their level of performance. Effective learning requires
constructive feedback and makes assessment an integral part of learning and teaching.
4.2 Teacher and Student Roles
In learning and teaching activities, teachers and students take on a variety of roles to make
learning more effective. Some of these roles are elaborated below.
Teachers are the consultants/instructors on computer knowledge; and both teachers and
students are learners
Teachers need to have an in-depth understanding of the theories, principles and concepts of
computer technology so that they can help students to create useful cognitive maps, construct
knowledge, apply it to real-world settings, relate ideas to each other and address
misconceptions. They can serve as role models by demonstrating (i) computer knowledge and
insights, (ii) flexible and critical thinking, and problem-solving skills and (iii) standards to be
pursued and upheld.
By acting as role models for lifelong learning through continuous self-updating and
self-improvement in both computer and pedagogical knowledge and skills, they can inspire
students to learn and create knowledge and become lifelong learners. However, teachers also
learn if they become partners in the process of constructing knowledge.
Teachers are knowledge facilitators and students are knowledge seekers
Teachers should act as facilitators of students’ learning, not just dispensers of facts and
information in a student-centred teaching approach. They can provide appropriate guidance
and assistance in helping students to solve problems, or carry out projects in which students
seek solutions, learn how to find relevant information, and make connections among concepts,
skill elements and experiences.
68

=== PAGE 79 ===

Teachers are resource consultants and students are resource collectors
Teachers lead students to develop the capacity for self-directed learning by locating and
securing tools and resources to support students’ learning; Students engage in searching and
collecting resource actively, discriminating information and understanding the materials
through self-directed learning, anywhere and at any time.
Teachers are assessors; students are assessed, but at times are also peer and
self-assessors
Teachers should assess students individually, as well as the class as a whole, by using a
variety of assessments of different aspects of learning, both formative and summative. They
need to judge each student’s stage in learning and evaluate their practice systematically and
critically. Students should receive constructive feedback and encouragement, and they can
also assess themselves. In addition, students can assess other students (peer assessment) to
help improve their learning.
Curriculum
What is worth
learning?
Alignment
for student
learning
How do How do
students we know
learn and students
teachers have
teach? learnt?
Pedagogy Assessment
Figure 4.1 “Trinity” of student learning in schools
4.3 Approaches and Strategies
During the three-year senior secondary ICT curriculum, students work towards the learning
targets of “knowledge and understanding”, “skills” and “values and attitudes” mentioned in
Chapter 2. To help teachers and to enhance the effectiveness of learning and teaching in the
69

=== PAGE 80 ===

context of ICT, examples of learning activities for a number of topics in the curriculum are
introduced in this chapter. Teachers should note, however, that:
 the suggestions are by no means the only approaches/activities which can be used to teach
the topics specified in the examples – to facilitate learning, teachers can employ a wide
range of teaching strategies to suit the different needs of their students; and
 the examples in this chapter aim to illustrate the more significant learning outcomes that
can be achieved in lessons but, in fact, students can achieve a number of learning targets
during the same learning process.
4.3.1 Acquisition of Content Knowledge
The curriculum provides students with access to vast networks of information. During their
studies, students should: develop knowledge and understanding of the range and organisation
of computer systems; understand the inter-relationships between hardware, software and data;
and realise the social, ethical and legal issues related to the use of ICT.
Example 1
Compulsory Part
Module: A Information Processing
Topic: a Introduction to Information Processing
Theme: The input-process-output cycle of a vending machine
Students are asked to describe the working cycle of a vending machine in terms of input,
process and output. Students may come to a conclusion that a stored program which follows
the input–process–output cycle governs a vending machine.
In the process of getting to this conclusion, students need to identify and examine the
components of an information system (the vending machine). In doing so, they may discover
that many daily-life incidents – both computer-based and non-computer-based processes – are
examples of information processing.
4.3.2 Development of Generic Skills
The senior secondary ICT curriculum involves a variety of classroom activities, such as
reading reference materials, collecting data/information, designing and processing. Generic
skills, especially creativity, critical thinking and problem-solving skills, are integrated into the
learning and teaching of the subject.
Creativity
Students can develop their creative abilities by, for example, generating ideas of their own,
making new combinations of old elements, using different strategies to solve a programming
problem and working out different database designs.
70

=== PAGE 81 ===

Example 2
Elective Part
Option: B Web Application Development
Topic: a Network Services and Implementation
Theme: Network services for an exhibition booth
A teacher gives the class the task of designing a network with services for an exhibition
booth. The proposal does not have to be a working prototype but should convey the key
features of the intended design ideas. In this activity, students have to use their imagination to
functional features to the exhibition booth. They can experiment with setting network devices
and related services.
From the conceptualisation of initial ideas to the realisation of the final design, students are
encouraged to generate different solutions and then critically appraise the aesthetic value and
functional characteristics of each design.
Critical thinking skills
Students have to reflect regularly on their ideas, designs, choices of materials and tools in
relation to the task set. Students develop their critical thinking skills through such processes.
Example 3
Elective Part
Option: A Databases
Topic: a Relational Databases Concepts
Theme: A database for a library book reservation system
(Note: This example focuses on the development of students’ critical thinking skills. An
elaborated version to illustrate the integration of generic skills is given in Appendix 1.)
Students are asked to create a simple relational database for a computerised library book
reservation system for their schools. In this task, they investigate the needs of their
schoolmates and provide solutions for developing such a system.
The process of developing the solutions nurtures students’ critical thinking skills through the
following activities: (1) analysing the requirements of a computerised book reservation
system; (2) creating a simple relational database; and (3) appraising various aspects of the
solutions against the design specifications.
Problem-solving skills
In studying ICT, students are provided with many activities to develop their problem-solving
skills.
71

=== PAGE 82 ===

Example 4
Elective Part
Option: B Web Application Development
Topic: b Web Programming and Applications
Theme: Web-based Management System for an event in Sports Day
Students are requested to create a simple web-based management system for an event in their
school’s Sports Day. They need to analyse the data needed to be stored and processed by the
system as well as the corresponding output.
In this activity, students develop their problem-solving skills by identifying the problems,
designing and implementing their own solutions.
4.3.3 Development of Values and Attitudes
In the senior secondary ICT curriculum, students are expected to appreciate how information
literacy and the sharing of knowledge using ICT influence decision-making and shape our
society. They should develop responsible and positive attitudes towards the use of ICT.
Example 5
Compulsory Part
Module: E Social Implications
Topic: c Intellectual Property
Theme: A debate on the benefits and risks of different software licensing schemes
Students have to debate the benefits and risks of different licensing schemes such as freeware,
shareware, open source software and copyrighted software from the perspectives of users and
software developers.
In this activity, students develop positive values and attitudes towards the idea of intellectual
property and copyright, and then are more aware of the ways to reduce intellectual property
theft on digital property.
4.3.4 Choosing Appropriate Strategies
Learning ICT is a complex, multi-faceted, active and interactive process. Apart from the
traditional lecturing approach, active learning elements should be infused into classroom
activities for effective learning and teaching. Teachers should employ a repertoire of
strategies to provide students with multiple ways to acquire the knowledge, concepts and
skills that this curriculum encompasses; and they should help students to gain a deep
understanding of content knowledge, as well as generic skills, such as problem-solving,
critical thinking, creativity, communication, meta-cognition, and the capacity to learn how to
learn.
Teachers must, therefore, not only be knowledgeable about ICT, but also have the
pedagogical skills and knowledge to deliver the curriculum.
Teachers should also strive to develop the potential of every student to the full. For this
72

=== PAGE 83 ===

purpose, they should adopt enquiry and problem-based learning, provide prompt support to
students, interact with them as a facilitator of learning, and provide timely and useful
feedback.
Direct instruction
Direct instruction involves transmitting knowledge from teacher to student, often in small
steps, after which the teacher checks on student understanding through questions. In general,
direct instruction has four teaching functions: presenting new material, guiding practice,
correcting and providing feedback, and encouraging independent practice. This method has
been shown to be particularly effective in areas which involve well-structured,
straightforward tasks where teachers can provide general guidelines and students can practise
independently. An example of the use of a direct instruction approach is given below.
Example 6
Compulsory Part
Module: A Information Processing
Topic: d Data Manipulation and Analysis
Theme: Formatting the content in a spreadsheet and generating different charts
This class is conducted in the computer room. The teacher demonstrates how to perform
various formatting features on a spreadsheet, such as cell formats and text orientation, as well
as generating charts, using a computer and projector. After the demonstration, the students
practise on their computers, the teacher observes them and gives feedback. Through
individual practice, students learn various formatting methods and note the effects of the
formatting features. This knowledge and skill gives them the background for performing
more meaningful tasks such as presenting statistical information from surveys.
Enquiry
In an enquiry approach the students find out information by themselves. They engage in
complex cognitive processes which require thoughtful discourse, and are often involved in
self-directed learning. They are invited to make assumptions and predictions and debate
alternatives in a meaningful context and so develop their critical thinking skills. Students are
also encouraged to provide explanations/elaborations of their answers. The concept of
teaching as enquiry is illustrated in the following activities which may take place inside or
outside the classroom.
73

=== PAGE 84 ===

Example 7
Elective Part
Option: A Databases
Topic: c Database Design Methodology
Theme: Analysing simple scenarios in business, education or other fields and creating
simple ER diagrams involving binary relationships only in designing a database.
(Note: This example focuses on using an enquiry-based strategy. An elaborated version using
multiple teaching strategies is given in Appendix 2.)
One or two weeks before the lesson, the teacher asks students to form pairs and start to
investigate the data required for a school library system. Students are encouraged to go
through the procedures for borrowing and returning books in a public library if the school
library system has not yet computerised. They are also asked to search for related information
from the Internet, and discuss the relevant issues with their classmates/a
librarian/friends/parents. Students need to think critically about the data involved in such a
system. They have to write down the static data (e.g. about users of the system, such as
student_number, student_class, and about books (such as ISBN, title, author, publisher) and
the dynamic data to be recorded when a book is borrowed or returned, and then design and
construct the database tables for a school library system.
In the classroom, the teacher asks three to four groups of students to present their findings
during lesson time. The students need to state the assumptions they have made about the
functions of a school library system, and provide explanation for their designs of the table
structures. Various creative designs may arise from the knowledge they have gained from
self-directed learning in the previous stage. The teacher should offer hints to the students if
they are unable to identify the critical data required during this stage. (e.g. that the book
return/borrowing process requires data such as student_number, ISBN, date_borrow/date_
return). Students can compare different designs and examine critically how the
information/functions (say books on loan, books not returned after the due date, the most
popular books during a period of time, etc.) can be derived/performed from the suggested
table structures of a database. By asking students to present their designs with explanations
and allowing them to observe their peers doing the same, students learn how to make
important and rational decisions about the information to convey and how to convey it.
Besides learning the content of the topic, students learn to work collaboratively, and respect
each other’s contributions in completing the task successfully.
74

=== PAGE 85 ===

Scaffolding
Scaffolding provides temporary task-oriented support which allows students to perform tasks
or solve problems which they cannot accomplish on their own. It is an interactive process in
which the student is assisted by others (teachers or peers) to acquire knowledge or skill. For
learning to take place, a learner must have sufficient background knowledge to be able to
start to process new information into personal knowledge. Scaffolding helps learners to make
connections between what they already know and the new information being presented; and
in this way, it develops mental schemas, into which the new information is integrated and
becomes personal knowledge that is meaningful to them. For example, at the start, the teacher
might explain what is to be learnt, to assist the learners in knowing where they are going; and
in the scaffolding activities, he/she needs to pay particular attention to inconsistencies in
learners’ responses as they may lead to students’ misconceptions later on.
Example 8
Elective Part
Option: A Databases
Topic: c Database Design Methodology
Theme: Creating simple ER diagrams.
In creating ER diagrams, the teacher may want to see if students can identify entities and the
attributes in a simple scenario (e.g. a simplified public library system); or he/she may suggest
that students start by identifying entities only. If this fails, the teacher needs to point out the
entities (e.g. BOOK, READER) and ask students to name the attributes for the entities in turn
(e.g. Title, Author, Publisher and ISBN for BOOK; ID-number, Name, Address for
READER). After entities and their attributes are identified, the teacher may ask students to
discuss the possible relationships between entities; and the students will produce various
designs based on the knowledge they have gained from previous experience. The teacher
should prompt students that different function requirements of a system may need different
database designs (e.g. keeping the current loan status of a book may require fewer tables in
the database compared with keeping the book’s entire loan history).
For successful scaffolding, teachers should give just enough support to enable students to
carry out the task.
75

=== PAGE 86 ===

Feedback
During the learning and teaching process, teachers can give informal feedback to help
students to see what they need to do to achieve the learning objectives or enhance their
learning further. Teachers should also encourage students to express themselves openly and
share their work in class. The feedback provided should be constructive and supportive and
avoid lowering students’ self-esteem. Also, students should be encouraged to develop the skill
of giving useful feedback to their peers. With the increased use of project learning, timely
feedback from teachers, peers or even experts from outside the school helps students to
reflect on their thinking and build up their personal knowledge.
Example 9
Elective Part
Option: A Databases
Topic: c Database Design Methodology
Theme: Understanding the concepts of data redundancy
The teacher presents samples of “Examination Results” in a table format and helps students
to identify “data, records, fields and file” in the hierarchical organisation of data. He/she then
asks students to present “BOOK” information in a similar format. Students can present this
information in a three-column table with title, author and publisher as column headings. If
students are asked to give more examples of book data using the school’s textbook list, it is
likely that the same publisher will appear in the table a number of times – and the teacher
should point out the possibility that the same publisher may appear differently in the table
(e.g. due to typing errors). The teacher can then ask students to discuss the possible
consequences of duplicated data in the table if the data are to be updated in future – and also
suggest how to prevent storing duplicated data. This helps to build up students’ knowledge on
database concepts and thus improves their learning of database design.
Timely feedback from teachers helps students to reflect on their thinking and enhances their
understanding and retention of new content knowledge.
Co-construction
Teachers can be students’ partners in the co-construction of knowledge. During the
co-construction process, both teacher and students contribute ideas regarding a topic.
Teachers facilitate discussion by asking open-ended questions and require students to
compare and defend their own arguments. Sometimes teachers might set some constraints or
counter arguments to students in order to lead them to the expected direction. By doing so
students will have to generate, review and modify their ideas along with their peer and
teachers. This iterative process allows teachers and students working together as facilitators
and learners with changing roles which leads to knowledge creation through co-construction.
76

=== PAGE 87 ===

Example 10
Compulsory Part
Module: E Social Implications
Topic: c Intellectual Property
Theme: e-forum on acts of infringement of copyright
Teachers can make use of the school intranet to allow discussion between themselves and
students, and among students. They can start an e-forum on the topic “Social, legal and
economic implications of acts of infringement of copyright”. Each student is required to
post an item of news, a court case, a URL etc. related to the issue, and then give his/her views
on the material posted by other students. The teacher should participate on a regular basis,
encourage critical thinking, and prompt students to think logically and provide evidence to
support their opinions. By sharing his/her thoughts through this electronic platform, each
participant also gains deeper understanding of the topic being discussed.
Discussion/debate can be carried out outside the classroom. Feedback and reflection may lead
to new questions and the cycle of learning moves forward. Students discuss and answer each
other’s questions at any time they like. Sometimes they may include topics beyond the
curriculum.
4.3.5 Teaching for Understanding
Knowledge and skills learnt at the level of rote memorisation rarely transfer to other contexts.
The transfer of learning occurs best when students understand the underlying principles that
can be applied to problems in new situations.
To promote understanding, teachers need to know clearly what it is they want to teach. For
instance, in Example 6, the teacher introduced how to format spreadsheets and generate
charts and asking students to do meaningful tasks related to the real world.
Secondly, teachers should identify what is worth understanding. Faced with the rapid
advances in computer technology, students should be encouraged to read computer journals
and magazines, update their computer knowledge and skills through various means such as
educational newsgroups and websites available on the Internet, and attend workshops or
participate in contests in order to enrich their learning experiences. All these activities help to
develop students’ potential in the computer industry and nurture their capacity for being
lifelong learners.
Thirdly, teachers should decide how to teach for understanding. For instance, in Example 7,
the teacher should help students to understand the design methodology using ER diagrams. In
pairs, students analyse simple scenarios in the school library; and by the time they present
their designs with explanations, they should have developed their understanding of the
content, and learnt to work collaboratively, respecting each other’s contributions in
completing the task successfully.
77

=== PAGE 88 ===

4.3.6 Learning Outside Classroom
Teachers should explore opportunities for students to learn in authentic settings. Such
experiential learning enables students to achieve certain learning goals that are more difficult
to attain through classroom learning alone.
Libraries, government departments, public institutions and non-government organisations are
all potential sources of information for studying different issues in the senior secondary ICT
curriculum. In fact, opportunities for learning exist everywhere in the community. Schools
can also make use of their connections to arrange cross-border exchange programmes or
visits to broaden students’ horizons on ICT.
There are also organisations which are willing to support student learning of the curriculum
in various ways, such as providing updated information, producing curriculum resources, and
organising competitions and talks. One of these competitions – the HKOI, which is
co-organised by the government and a non-government organisation – requires students to
learn computer programming at a level they do not usually reach in class.
4.4 Interaction
Interaction between the student and the teacher can motivate learning and provides support
and encouragement; and interaction among peers helps students to consolidate ideas, test
hypotheses and affirm opinions.
Interaction is supported when, for example:
 teachers facilitate the exchange of ideas, attitudes, and opinions;
 both students and teachers cultivate an accepting atmosphere which helps to develop
creativity, open-mindedness, objectivity and respect for the views of others;
 teachers provide insightful and timely input and feedback to students;
 teachers make good use of open-ended questions to stimulate students’ critical thinking;
 teachers enrich discussion without dictating its direction, and keep distractions and
interruptions to a minimum;
 teachers shift from interactions which are brief and random to those which are longer and
more sustained;
 teachers are sensitive to the way their expression, gesture, body language, physical stance
and location in the learning environment can affect the type and quality of interaction;
 both students and teachers recognise that they are influential models during interaction;
and
 students work in groups to develop their ability to communicate effectively.
The purpose for interaction must be meaningful to the students. Opportunities should be
provided for students to exchange ideas and opinions; and the teacher should not dominate
the discussion and conversation during such exchanges, but should encourage risk-taking and
creativity.
78

=== PAGE 89 ===

The following example helps to illustrate how interaction can be included in a learning task.
Example 11
Elective Part
Option: B Web Application Development
Topic: b Web Programming and Applications
Theme: Designing a web application
In this task, interaction can take place between teachers and students, and among students
themselves to provide valuable learning opportunities.
At the beginning of the lesson, students study a networking project prepared by the teacher,
which may involve building a web application. Students are organised into small groups.
Role-playing interviews are arranged in which some students play the part of application
users and others of technical personnel. In the process of gathering information for the
proposed application, students have to negotiate with other classmates. Through actively
involvement in peer-to-peer interaction in a meaningful context, students improve their
communication skills: they become aware that appropriate protocols, manners and tone have
to be used in verbal (e.g. face-to-face or by telephone), written (e.g. reports and letters) as
well as visual communication (e.g. using graphical image models), and learn how to phrase
their messages to obtain the desired responses.
In the next stage, students conduct a needs analysis, and have to translate the needs identified
into specifications for the proposed application, based on the requirements gathered from the
interviews. They then design a network to meet the requirements and represent it in
different forms (e.g. user interface design). At this stage, the teacher plays a variety of roles –
as a knowledge facilitator and resource consultant. He/she monitors students’ progress and
provides constructive feedback to students’ enquiries to cultivate their problem-solving skills
and creativity. Students act as both knowledge-seekers and resource collectors during the
process.
At the end of the activity, each group gives a presentation of its work in front of the whole
class, in which they have to justify their designs based on technical concerns,
cost-effectiveness and other considerations. Each group also has to respond to oral
questioning on its design from the teacher, as well as other groups. At this point, both the
teachers and students take on the role of assessors.
During the process, students face challenges as well as receiving qualitative feedback from
different parties, which offers opportunities for self-reflection and further learning.
79

=== PAGE 90 ===

4.5 Catering for Learner Diversity
4.5.1 Different Strategies
Catering for learner diversity should involve the use of appropriate strategies to ensure that
all learners learn and perform to the best of their abilities. A multi-dimensional approach
involving a variety of different strategies, such as those set out below, may be helpful:
 Enhance students’ intrinsic motivation through arousing their curiosity by using contents
and contexts that appeal to the relevant age-group, encouraging them to value their
achievements, and controlling the level of challenge and the risk of frustration in
problem-solving;
 Give recognition to students’ performance, which is the most immediate means of raising
their self-esteem. There is no need to try to force students to be successful at everything,
every time;
 Provide encouragement whenever appropriate by giving constructive responses to
students’ creative work and/or by involving parents to assist student learning;
 Get students to work on different topics or units of varying levels of difficulty;
 Modify the pace of instruction according to the abilities of students, and structure
activities so that students explore, explain, extend and evaluate their progress;
 Make use of a variety of resources (e.g. the Internet, newspapers, friends, parents) instead
of just using textbooks;
 Encourage cooperative and collaborative learning to enrich the perspectives and
experiences of students; and
 Encourage more able students to do more challenging tasks or even take part in
worldwide competitions.
4.5.2 Different Learning Styles
Students have a variety of learning styles: some learn best by reading, or by watching others
perform, while some prefer “learning by doing”. Teachers therefore need to find out how
individual students in their class learn best. Teachers should not be seen as the only source of
support in helping students with different learning styles: they should be trained to learn by
themselves and encouraged to see their fellow schoolmates as learning partners. By providing
four options in the Elective Part, the senior secondary ICT curriculum aims to cater for
students with different interests and post-secondary aspirations.
4.5.3 Learners with Special Education Needs
Based on the principle of “one curriculum framework for all”, students with Special
Educational Needs (SEN) follow the same school curriculum as other students.
80

=== PAGE 91 ===

Students with learning difficulties
Equal opportunities should be provided for students with learning difficulties to gain essential
learning experiences from activities inside and beyond the classroom. However, some
adaptations to the learning materials and the teaching approaches have to be made to meet
their needs. The curriculum should be balanced, with due consideration given to their
intellectual, personal, emotional and social development. Teachers also need to refine the
objectives and expected learning outcomes to align them more closely with the abilities of
such students, and monitor their progress closely and regularly. Teachers should use a variety
of means to cater for their special needs – for example by presenting the subject content
through different means, e.g. multimedia and other technologies, and allowing the students to
express their ideas in their preferred form (e.g. drawings, videos, oral reports).
Example 12 – Visually impaired children
Teachers should choose appropriate learning materials to meet the needs of visually impaired
students. For example, printed materials and diagrams may have to be adapted by using
contrasting colours, tactile marks, enlarged size, and increased boldness and spacing. Also,
training in operating computer access devices needs to be given, including the following
skills: screen review skills in braille or in visual enlargement, printing skills with a braille
printer, and the use of optical character recognition techniques for transformation. Also,
depending on the degree of impairment, they have to be trained to use one, or more, of the
following special adaptive devices before they can manipulate the different processes of a
computer system:
(a) screen enlargement devices or software;
(b) voice synthesisers;
(c) braille displays on computers.
Gifted students
Gifted students have educational needs that differ in nature from those of other students, and
schools need to respond to these and develop their potential. The senior secondary ICT
curriculum provides effective ways of nurturing giftedness. For example, writing more
demanding programs can enhance gifted students’ problem-solving skills, and promote their
reasoning and creative abilities; and the use of a database and spreadsheet can enable them to
carry out powerful data analysis. In addition, teachers may consider adopting the following
strategies:
 Use an enquiry-based learning approach, with open-ended questions that have multiple
solutions or multiple paths to solutions. Also, encourage them to formulate their own
ways of finding the answers to complex questions;
 Use higher-level questions involving “why” and “what-if” in discussing problems;
 Use a problem-based learning approach that encourages them to define the problem and
work out how best to solve it;
 Provide opportunities for them to move beyond the curriculum to study topics which are
of particular interest to them and/or design activities related to current lessons that
challenge them; and
 Encourage them to take part in ICT-related competitions such as the HKOI to widen their
exposure and help them to fulfil their potential in specific areas of ICT.
81

=== PAGE 92 ===

4.6 Building a Learning Community
The Internet has proved to be a very effective platform for building learning communities
among teachers and students. Internet technologies and services such as newsgroups,
discussion forums and blogs are readily accessible, and can be easily customised to build a
virtual community to serve a common learning goal. However, the technology itself does not
guarantee the success of a learning community – both teachers and students need to
participate actively and share their knowledge, experience and expertise in building and
maintaining a successful learning community.
4.6.1 Co-construction in a Learning Community
As members of the learning community, teachers take the lead in fostering a sharing culture,
learning with their students, encouraging peer learning and group work, and taking part in the
co-construction of knowledge. Students come to treat their teachers and classmates as
partners in learning, share views with them, interact with one another and learn to appreciate
and value the views of others.
4.6.2 Developing Student Potential in a Learning Community
Many learning and teaching activities can be designed to provide students with ways of
participating in a learning community. By taking on different responsibilities, students have a
wide variety of experiences and develop different kinds of expertise. Learning and teaching
activities should be organised in such a way that students are encouraged to go beyond the
common knowledge base and seek to approach issues in their own ways so as to generate
new ideas and perspectives.
With the help of the latest technologies such as social network services and various
communication and collaboration platforms, student-student and student-teacher interaction
may be extended anywhere and anytime outside the classroom. By responding to teachers’
open-ended questions, students have to compare, discriminate, critique, appreciate, and
defend their own or other students’ argument. In this way, a learning community is created.
Students are encouraged to learn independently and think carefully before responding to
others.
82

=== PAGE 93 ===

Learning as …
a product a process co-construction
Learning
Community
Example 10
(P. 77)
How is knowledge learnt?
(pedagogy and
assessment)
Example 6 Example 11
Meaningful learning (P. 73) (P. 79)
Example 4
Example 2, 3
(P. 72)
(P. 71)
Generic skills
Example 7
Example 8, 9 Example 5
Content knowledge
(P. 74)
What is worth learning? (P. 75, 76) (P. 72)
(curriculum)
Content knowledge
(sources, understanding, Example 1
(P. 70)
structure and nature)
direct instruction enquiry co-construction
Teaching as…
Figure 4.2 Approaches to Learning and Teaching
83

=== PAGE 94 ===

(Blank Page)
84

=== PAGE 95 ===

Chapter 5 Assessment
This chapter discusses the role of assessment in learning and teaching the senior secondary
ICT curriculum, the principles that should guide assessment of the subject and the need for
both formative and summative assessment. It also provides guidance on internal assessment
and details of the public assessment of ICT. Finally, information is given on how standards
are established and maintained and how results are reported with reference to these standards.
General guidance on assessment can be found in the Secondary Education Curriculum Guide
(SECG) (CDC, 2017).
5.1 The Roles of Assessment
Assessment is the practice of collecting evidence of student learning. It is a vital and integral
part of classroom instruction, and serves several purposes and audiences.
First and foremost, it gives feedback to students, teachers, schools and parents on the
effectiveness of teaching and on student strengths and weaknesses in learning.
Secondly, it provides information to schools, school systems, government, tertiary institutions
and employers to enable them to monitor standards and to facilitate selection decisions.
The most important role of assessment is in promoting learning and monitoring students’
progress. However, in the senior secondary years, the more public roles of assessment for
certification and selection come to the fore. Inevitably, these imply high stake uses of
assessment since the results are typically used to make critical decisions about individuals.
The Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) provides a common
end-of-school credential that gives access to university study, work, and further education and
training. It summarises student performance in the four core subjects and in various elective
subjects, including both discipline-oriented subjects (including ICT) and the new Applied
Learning courses. It needs to be interpreted in conjunction with other information about
students as shown in the Student Learning Profile.
5.2 Formative and Summative Assessment
It is useful to distinguish between the two main purposes of assessment, namely “assessment
for learning” and “assessment of learning”.
“Assessment for learning” is concerned with obtaining feedback on learning and teaching,
and utilising this to make learning more effective and to introduce any necessary changes to
teaching strategies. We refer to this kind of assessment as “formative assessment” because it
is all about forming or shaping learning and teaching. Formative assessment should take
place on a daily basis and typically involves close attention to small “chunks” of learning.
“Assessment of learning” is concerned with determining progress in learning, and is referred
to as “summative” assessment, because it is all about summarising how much learning has
taken place. Summative assessment is normally undertaken at the conclusion of a significant
85

=== PAGE 96 ===

period of instruction (e.g. at the end of the year, or of a key stage of schooling) and reviews
much larger “chunks” of learning.
In practice, a sharp distinction cannot always be made between formative and summative
assessment, because the same assessment can in some circumstances serve both formative
and summative purposes. Teachers can refer to the SECG (CDC, 2017) for further discussion
of formative and summative assessment.
Formative assessment should be distinguished from continuous assessment. The former refers
to the provision of feedback to improve learning and teaching based on formal or informal
assessment of student performance, while the latter refers to the assessment of students’
ongoing work and may involve no provision of feedback that helps to promote better learning
and teaching. For example, accumulating results in class tests carried out on a weekly basis,
without giving students constructive feedback, may neither be effective formative assessment
nor meaningful summative assessment.
There are good educational reasons why formative assessment should be given more attention
and accorded a higher status than summative assessment, on which schools tended to place a
greater emphasis in the past. There is research evidence on the beneficial effects of
formative assessment when used for refining instructional decision-making in teaching and
generating feedback to improve learning. For this reason, the CDC report Learning to
Learn – The Way Forward in Curriculum Development (CDC, 2001) recommended that there
should be a change in assessment practices, with schools placing due emphasis on formative
assessment to make assessment for learning an integral part of classroom teaching.
Another distinction to be made is between internal assessment and public assessment.
Internal assessment refers to the assessment practices that teachers and schools employ as
part of the ongoing learning and teaching process during the three years of senior secondary
studies. In contrast, public assessment refers to the assessment conducted as part of the
assessment process in place for all schools. Within the context of the HKDSE, this means the
public examinations conducted by the HKEAA. On balance, internal assessment should be
more formative, whereas public assessment tends to be more summative. Nevertheless, this
need not be seen as a simple dichotomy.
5.3 Assessment Objectives
The assessment objectives are closely aligned with the curriculum framework and the broad
learning outcomes presented in earlier chapters.
The learning objectives to be assessed in ICT are listed below:
1. develop knowledge and understanding of the range and organisation of computer
systems, and the interrelationships between hardware, software and data;
2. realise the social, ethical and legal issues pertaining to the use of ICT;
3. use a range of applications software effectively, ethically and with discrimination to
support information processing and problem-solving;
4. demonstrate an understanding of methods for analysing problems, and planning and
implementing solutions using ICT;
86

=== PAGE 97 ===

5. appreciate how information literacy and the sharing of knowledge using ICT influence
decision-making and shape our society; and
6. develop responsible and positive attitudes towards the use of ICT.
The majority of the above assessment objectives are applicable to both internal and public
assessment, while some may not be applicable to public assessment. Those objectives
applicable to public assessment are listed in the Regulations and Assessment Frameworks
published by the HKEAA.
5.4 Internal Assessment
This section presents the guiding principles that can be used as the basis for designing
internal assessment and some common assessment practices for ICT for use in schools. Some
of these principles are common to both internal and public assessment.
5.4.1 Guiding Principles
Internal assessment practices should be aligned with curriculum planning, teaching
progression, student abilities and local school contexts. The information collected will help
to motivate, promote and monitor student learning, and will also help teachers to find ways of
promoting more effective learning and teaching.
(a) Alignment with the learning objectives
A range of assessment practices should be used to assess the achievement of different
learning objectives for whole-person development. These include practical tasks, written
tests, projects and oral questioning. The weighting given to different areas in assessment
should be discussed and agreed among teachers. The assessment purposes and criteria
should also be made known to students so that they have a full understanding of what is
expected of them.
(b) Catering for the range of student ability
Assessment practices incorporating different levels of difficulty and diverse modes should be
used to cater for students with different aptitudes and abilities. This helps to ensure that the
more able students are challenged to develop their full potential and the less-able ones are
encouraged to sustain their interest and succeed in learning.
(c) Tracking progress over time
As internal assessment should not be a one-off exercise, schools are encouraged to use
practices that can track learning progress over time (e.g. portfolios). Assessment practices of
this kind allow students to set their own incremental targets and manage their own pace of
learning, which will have a positive impact on their commitment to learning.
87

=== PAGE 98 ===

(d) Timely and encouraging feedback
Teachers should provide timely and encouraging feedback through a variety of means, such
as constructive verbal comments during classroom activities and written remarks on
assignments. Such feedback helps students sustain their momentum in learning, and to
identify their strengths and weaknesses.
(e) Making reference to the school’s context
As learning is more meaningful when the content or process is linked to a setting which is
familiar to students, schools are encouraged to design assessment tasks that make reference to
the school’s own context (e.g. its location, relationship with the community, and mission).
(f) Making reference to current progress in student learning
Internal assessment tasks should be designed with reference to students’ current progress, as
this helps to overcome obstacles that may have a cumulative negative impact on learning.
Teachers should be mindful in particular of concepts and skills which form the basis for
further development in learning.
(g) Feedback from peers and from the students themselves
In addition to giving feedback, teachers should also provide opportunities for peer assessment
and self-assessment in student learning. The former enables students to learn among
themselves, and the latter promotes reflective thinking which is vital for students’ lifelong
learning.
(h) Appropriate use of assessment information to provide feedback
Internal assessment provides a rich source of data for providing evidence-based feedback on
learning in a formative manner.
5.4.2 Internal Assessment Practices
A range of assessment practices, such as practical tasks, written tests, projects and oral
questioning, suited to ICT should be used to promote the attainment of the various learning
outcomes. However, teachers should note that these practices should be an integral part of
learning and teaching, not “add-on” activities.
Practical tasks
The acquisition of fundamental practical skills is essential for student understanding of
some of the curriculum content. These tasks are standards-referenced (i.e. students’
performance is matched against pre-set standards), and teachers can assess students’
performance on them, and give feedback, as often as necessary.
88

=== PAGE 99 ===

Written tests
As in other subjects, written tests are the most common mode of assessment in ICT.
To reflect the curriculum aims and learning targets, such tests should be geared towards
assessing students’ understanding of concepts, creativity and higher-order thinking
skills rather than just factual recall – and the inclusion of open-ended questions can help
in evaluating such higher-order skills. ICT teachers can easily find ready-to-use online
written tests/quizzes in various web-based learning platforms, which have a large
databank of question items and can give instant feedback to students. More
sophisticated systems even have test items graded in level to cater for learners’
differences in ability.
Projects
A project is any piece of extended work from which the constraints of lesson time have
been largely removed. Asking students to carry out project work provides an
opportunity for them to study a topic of interest in depth, and teachers may wish to
draw the following steps in the process to students’ attention:
 Clarifying the areas of interest
 Interpretation of the question
 Analysis of the case
 Designing a solution
 Implementation of the solution
 Testing and evaluation
 Documentation
 Presenting the product
Throughout the cycle, teachers should help students to acquire the essential practical
ICT skills for completing the project. To enhance the validity and reliability of internal
assessment, teachers may consider offering a range of project options to accommodate
the full spectrum of students’ aptitudes and abilities.
Oral questioning
Oral questioning need not be seen as a form of test to be used in the language subjects
only. It can be helpful in other subjects also. It allows teachers to discuss matters in
depth with able students, tease out the meaning of obscure statements, and find out the
reasons for students’ conclusions. Teachers are encouraged to try using oral assessment,
as it can be a valuable supplement to conventional assessment methods.
Regardless of the assessment activities adopted, at the heart of effective formative assessment
is feedback since this provides constructive advice to students on how they can improve their
learning.
89

=== PAGE 100 ===

5.5 Public Assessment
5.5.1 Guiding Principles
Some principles guiding public assessment are outlined below for teachers’ reference.
(a) Alignment with the curriculum
The outcomes that are assessed and examined through the HKDSE should be aligned with the
aims, objectives and intended learning outcomes of the new senior secondary curriculum. To
enhance the validity of public assessment, the assessment procedures should address the
range of valued learning outcomes, and not just those that are assessable through external
written examinations.
(b) Fairness, objectivity and reliability
Students should be assessed in ways that are fair and are not biased against particular groups
of students. A characteristic of fair assessment is that it is objective and under the control of
an independent examining authority that is impartial and open to public scrutiny. Fairness
also implies that assessments provide a reliable measure of each student’s performance in a
given subject so that, if they were to be repeated, very similar results would be obtained.
(c) Inclusiveness
The assessments and examinations in the HKDSE need to accommodate the full spectrum of
student aptitude and ability. In the Elective Part of ICT, there are three options, from which
students choose two depending on their abilities, interests and needs.
(d) Standards-referencing
The reporting system is ‘standard-referenced’, i.e. student performance is matched against
standards, which indicate what students have to know and be able to do to merit a certain
level of performance.
(e) Informativeness
The HKDSE qualification and the associated assessment and examinations system provide
useful information to all parties. Firstly, it provides feedback to students on their
performance and to teachers and schools on the quality of the teaching provided. Secondly,
it communicates to parents, tertiary institutions, employers and the public at large what it is
that students know and are able to do, in terms of how their performance matches the
standards. Thirdly, it facilitates selection decisions that are fair and defensible.
90

=== PAGE 101 ===

5.5.2 Assessment Design
The table below shows the assessment design of the subject with effect from the 2025
HKDSE Examination. The assessment design is subject to continual refinement in the light of
feedback from live examinations. Full details are provided in the Regulations and
Assessment Frameworks for the year of the examination and other supplementary documents,
which are available on the HKEAA website
(www.hkeaa.edu.hk/en/hkdse/assessment/assessment_framework/).
Component Weighting Duration
Public Paper 1 Compulsory Part 55% 2 hours
examination
Paper 2 Elective Part (choose two options 25% 1 hour
only)
30 minutes
2A Databases
2B Web Application Development
2C Algorithm and Programming
School-based Assessment (SBA) 20%
5.5.3 Public Examinations
In the public examination for the ICT curriculum, a standards-referenced approach will be
adopted for grading and reporting student performance.
Different types of items are used to assess students’ performance in a broad range of skills
and abilities. The types of items include multiple-choice questions and structured
data-response questions. Schools may refer to the live examination papers regarding the
format of the examination and the standards at which the questions are pitched.
5.5.4 School-based Assessment (SBA)
In the context of public assessment, SBA refers to assessments administered in schools and
marked by the student’s own teachers. The primary rationale for SBA in ICT is to enhance
the validity of the assessment by including the whole range of dimensions of learning in the
curriculum: knowledge and understanding, generic skills and practical skills.
There are, however, some additional reasons for SBA in ICT. For example, it reduces
dependence on the results of public examinations, which may not always provide the most
reliable indication of the actual abilities of candidates. Assessments based on student
performance over an extended period of time and developed by those who know the students
best – their subject teachers – provides a more reliable assessment of each student.
Another reason for including SBA is to promote a positive “backwash effect” on students,
teachers and school staff. Within ICT, SBA can serve to motivate students by requiring
them to engage in meaningful activities; and for teachers, it can reinforce curriculum aims
and good teaching practice, and provide structure and significance to an activity they are in
any case involved in on a daily basis, namely assessing their own students.
91

=== PAGE 102 ===

With effect from the 2018 HKDSE Examination, in the SBA, students are required to
complete two guided tasks focusing on ‘Design and Implementation’ and ‘Testing and
Evaluation’ in the development of an information system. The context of the guided tasks is
related to both the Compulsory Part and the Elective Part chosen by individual students.
Teachers are encouraged to inform students of the assessment criteria/guidelines before they
start the guided tasks, and to provide regular feedback to them on ways to improve their
learning.
Thirty hours of curriculum time have been allocated for SBA. While teachers should give
students advice and guidance on their work, it is essential that each piece of work is clearly
that of individual students. Very often, skills for completing SBA can be integrated into
daily learning and teaching activities without imposing much extra workload on students and
teachers. The following example is intended to illustrate this point.
Example 1 – Project skills incorporated into lessons
Module: Computational Thinking and Programming
Topic: Algorithm Design
Knowledge/generic skills to be assessed:
i) Outline the input and output requirements of a problem
ii) Design and construct standard algorithms involving basic control structures
Activity description:
In a timed learning task, students are required to design an examination score calculator
program to fulfil the following requirements.
It should:
 let students input their examination scores by subject
 assign a grade based on the score of each subject
 calculate the average examination score
 output the above results on screen.
Note
Upon completion of the task, students should document the solution for presentation to
the class later. In solving the problem, students will go through the following steps, with
teacher guidance:
 Problem identification
 Problem analysis
 Algorithm design
 Implementation
 Testing and debugging
 Documentation.
During the process, students are actually acquiring the essential project skills for
completing their ICT coursework assessment, which include:
 Problem-solving skills
 Time-management skills
 Documentation skills
 Presentation skills.
92

=== PAGE 103 ===

It should be noted that SBA is not an “add-on” element in the curriculum. The modes of SBA
above are normal in-class and out-of-class activities suggested in the curriculum. The
requirement to implement the SBA has taken into consideration the wide range of student
ability, and efforts have been made to avoid unduly increasing the workload of both teachers
and students. Detailed information on the requirements and implementation of the SBA and
samples of assessment tasks are provided to teachers by the HKEAA.
5.5.5 Standards and Reporting of Results
Standards-referenced reporting is adopted for the HKDSE. What this means is that
candidates’ levels of performance are reported with reference to a set of standards as defined
by cut scores on the mark scale for a given subject. Standards referencing relates to the way
in which results are reported and does not involve any changes in how teachers or examiners
mark student work. The set of standards for a given subject can be represented
diagrammatically as shown in Figure 5.1.
Cut scores
Mark scale
U 1 2 3 4 5
Figure 5.1 Defining levels of performance via cut scores on the mark scale for a
given subject
Within the context of the HKDSE there are five cut scores, which are used to distinguish five
levels of performance (1–5), with 5 being the highest. A performance below the cut score for
Level 1 is labelled as ‘Unclassified’ (U).
For each of the five levels, a set of written descriptors has been developed to describe what
the typical candidate performing at this level is able to do. The principle behind these
descriptors is that they describe what typical candidates can do, not what they cannot do. In
other words, they describe performance in positive rather than negative terms. These
descriptors represent ‘on-average’ statements and may not apply precisely to individuals,
whose performance within a subject may be variable and span two or more levels. Samples
of students’ work at various levels of attainment are provided to illustrate the standards
expected of them. These samples, when used together with the level descriptors, will clarify
the standards expected at the various levels of attainment.
In setting standards for the HKDSE, Levels 4 and 5 are set with reference to the standards
achieved by students awarded grades A–D in the HKALE. It needs to be stressed, however,
that the intention is that the standards will remain constant over time – not the percentages
awarded different levels, as these are free to vary in line with variations in overall student
performance. Referencing Levels 4 and 5 to the standards associated with the old grades A–D
is important for ensuring a degree of continuity with past practice, for facilitating tertiary
selection and for maintaining international recognition.
The overall level awarded to each candidate is made up of results in both the public
examination and the SBA. SBA results for ICT are statistically moderated to adjust for
differences among schools in marking standards, while preserving the rank ordering of
93

=== PAGE 104 ===

students as determined by the school.
To provide finer discrimination for selection purposes, the Level 5 candidates with the best
performance have their results annotated with the symbols ** and the next top group with the
symbol *. The HKDSE certificate itself records the Level awarded to each candidate.
94

=== PAGE 105 ===

Chapter 6 Learning and Teaching Resources
This chapter discusses the importance of flexible and effective use of learning and teaching
resources, including textbooks, to enhance student learning. Schools need to select, adapt and,
where appropriate, develop relevant resources to support student learning.
6.1 Purpose and Function of Learning and Teaching Resources
The purpose of learning and teaching resources is to provide a basis for students’ learning
experiences. They include not only textbooks, workbooks and audio-visual teaching aids
produced by the EDB or other organisations but also web-based learning materials, computer
software, the Internet, the media, libraries, resources in the natural environment, and people.
All of these should be drawn upon to broaden students’ learning experiences and meet their
different learning needs. If used effectively, they will help them to: consolidate what they
have learnt; extend and construct knowledge for themselves; and develop the learning
strategies, generic skills, values and attitudes they need – and thus lay a solid foundation for
lifelong learning.
School-based learning and teaching materials are also effective and need to cater for students’
needs. Used with appropriate teaching strategies, textbooks and school-based materials can
complement each other well to support the teaching and learning of ICT.
6.2 Guiding Principles
The basic considerations in the selection of learning and teaching resources, including
textbooks, for ICT are as follows. They should:
 be in line with the curriculum aims and contain core elements of the curriculum;
 arouse students’ interest and engage them actively in learning tasks;
 provide access to knowledge, as well as scaffolding, to help students progress in their
learning;
 cater for students’ individual differences by providing a variety of learning activities at
different levels of difficulty;
 be well expressed, and present information and ideas accurately and effectively;
 support independent learning by complementing and extending what students have learnt
in class; and
 support a variety of approaches and strategies such as inquiry, discussion,
co-construction and reflection.
6.3 Types of Resources
This section considers how teachers can make use of textbooks, reference materials, the
Internet and technology, and the community to bring about effective student learning of ICT.
95

=== PAGE 106 ===

6.3.1 Textbooks
Teachers still rely on textbooks as an important source of information to support their
teaching. Textbooks will be recommended only for the Compulsory Part of the ICT
curriculum. The recommended list will be available in early April 2022 for schools’
information.
Despite the fast-changing nature of technologies, much of the knowledge and many of the
fundamental principles of ICT can be suitably presented in textbooks. Teachers can advise
students to adopt the following practices to use textbooks effectively. First, go through the
required parts of the textbooks quickly to get an overview of the material, without making
notes (as students are likely to take down too much information and simply copy without
understanding); after the first reading, review the material and locate the main ideas and
important points; then try to paraphrase the ideas and points in note form. By using this
approach, students will become actively involved with the material and can arrange the
information from textbooks in ways which aid their understanding and allow them to
compare it with information from other sources. It will also help them to develop their skills
in “Reading to Learn”.
Teachers should not assume that the sequence of content presented in textbooks is necessarily
the teaching sequence required for the ICT curriculum. They should structure and design
teaching schemes according to their school situation, and their students’ needs, interests and
abilities.
6.3.2 Reference Materials
As there will be no textbooks for the Elective Part of the ICT curriculum, and some of the
information in textbooks may be too academic, lacking in real-life learning experiences,
students will need to use other sources. Printed materials such as reference books,
newspapers, journals, periodicals and magazines can provide a rich source of relevant
information to supplement textbooks. By reading such materials, students can develop their
reading and self-directed learning skills, and become more sensitive to recent trends and
developments in the ICT field.
In today’s information age, news comes from a wide range of sources that may conflict with
each other. Students should therefore be reminded to examine these sources critically and
evaluate them from various perspectives. Teachers should encourage their students to discuss
issues related to ICT, so that they can gain experience in presenting their own views and
responding to others, and in the process develop their communication skills.
Lists of useful reference books and websites for ICT can be found in the EDB TE KLA
website.
6.3.3 The Internet and Technology
The massive increase in the quantity of information available today has led to new
approaches to teaching and learning. Teachers can act as facilitators of learning by helping
students to search for information and to work on it to turn it into personal knowledge.
96

=== PAGE 107 ===

The Internet and technology help learning by:
 providing audio-visual aids for understanding difficult concepts;
 providing access to information from a wide range of sources;
 allowing students to work at their own pace, including the use of specially designed
software;
 promoting interaction between the students, resources and teachers;
 promoting collaboration between students and teachers; and
 facilitating the acquisition of information, the development of critical thinking, and
knowledge-building.
The Internet serves as a good context for teachers to nurture in students proper attitudes and
values related to various topics in the curriculum, including the ethical use of ICT, and
copyright and privacy issues. The key to effective use of the Internet and technology in
teaching is to maximise students’ engagement, enhance the quality of interaction by
providing timely feedback, and cater for learners’ differences by allowing self-directed and
self-paced learning. However, teachers should always caution their students to assess the
accuracy of information obtained from the Internet.
Given the multi-faceted nature of the curriculum and the ever-advancing technologies,
materials in print form cannot fully support the learning and teaching of the curriculum.
Some Internet and technology resources which the EDB plans to develop for use by ICT
teachers, or which are already available, are outlined below.
Web-based e-learning platform
Individuals with similar needs and interests are increasingly forming virtual communities
through, for example, discussion forums, newsgroups and blogs. These communities are
sources of a vast amount of information and knowledge, and provide participants with
opportunities for real collaboration in learning. With the aim of promoting collaboration and
co-construction of knowledge among ICT teachers, the EDB developed an e-learning
platform to support the revised Advanced Supplementary Level Computer Applications and
Advanced Level Computer Studies in 2005. The platform, which will be maintained to
provide continuous support for the ICT curriculum, can provide very effective support to
teachers and schools. With teachers’ active participation, a resources database can be set up
for different learning topics in the curriculum for convenient retrieval, and teachers can make
use of the materials on the e-learning platform for teaching ICT. However, they are
encouraged to modify them to suit their students’ needs, upload them on the schools’ Intranet,
and make hard copies or allow students to download the materials for self-directed learning.
Teachers are encouraged to share not just learning and teaching materials, but also their
teaching experience, teaching sequences and any difficulties they have faced in teaching
particular topics.
E-learning and teaching resources packages
As there will be no textbooks for the Elective Part of the ICT curriculum, a series of learning
and teaching resources packages for specific topics in this Part (e.g. Web Programming and
Applications in the Web Application Development option) will be developed by the EDB for
use in schools before 2023. Teachers may like to use these packages with their students.
97

=== PAGE 108 ===

Glossary of computer terms
As discrepancies exist in some Chinese ICT terminology used in Hong Kong, China and
nearby areas such as Taiwan and Singapore, the CDC has prepared a glossary of computer
terms which can be downloaded from the EDB website. It provides Chinese translations of
English terms and English translations of Chinese terms commonly used in teaching
computer subjects in secondary schools. The glossary is particularly valuable for teachers
since many useful references and resources for ICT on the Internet are in English. Teachers
can use it to aid the translation process in schools where Chinese is the medium of instruction.
The glossary will be reviewed periodically and updated as necessary.
6.3.4 Community Resources
A spirit of partnership is necessary among the many parties in the community who can
contribute in different ways to helping our students learn effectively. Some examples of the
specific roles they can play in relation to ICT are given below, but the list is by no means
exhaustive.
Professional organisations
The Hong Kong Association for Computer Education (HKACE) (http://www.hkace.org.hk/)
was founded in 1981, in response to the planning of a pilot scheme to introduce S4–5
Computer Studies as a subject in secondary schools by the then Education Department. The
formation of the HKACE aimed to promote computer education in schools through
collaboration. Its core members were actively involved in the design and revision of various
ICT-related curricula. The HKACE has mounted various sharing activities to support ICT
teachers, and has organised student competitions such as the HKOI to raise interest in
learning the subject. The HKACE has established a professional membership system, with
members classified according to their academic qualifications, professional development,
experience and contributions to IT education in Hong Kong.
The Association of IT Leaders in Education (AiTLE) (http://www.aitle.org.hk/) is a local
non-profitable educational association organised by a group of enthusiastic voluntary IT
co-ordinators and IT-related people who are working mainly in primary or secondary schools.
Its overall aim is to improve the quality of ICT education, and it does so by, for example:
holding lectures, exhibitions, meetings, classes and conferences; sharing experience and
resources in education; and supporting studies and development programmes. Guest
speakers/consultants are frequently invited to conduct free seminars/workshops for ICT
teachers. All IT-related teachers in local primary or secondary schools are eligible to apply for
free Associate membership of AiTLE, and members can use the resources on its website
freely.
98

=== PAGE 109 ===

Parents
Parental involvement in schools is important for the community and students. When parents
are involved in their sons’/daughters’ schools (e.g. in helping to choose curriculum materials),
they feel more committed to their education, more responsible for encouraging them, and
more supportive of the teaching staff. Parents should be encouraged to play a support or
advisory role in curriculum development to provide a community perspective. In the context
of ICT, schools can invite parents with a relevant background to, for instance: help and
monitor students using IT facilities during and outside normal school hours; be consultants
for school computer/ICT clubs; share their working experience of using ICT; and be a
speaker at computer/ICT club activities.
Alumni
Schools should establish close links with alumni to draw on their resources and professional
knowledge for improving schools’ “hardware” and “software” and strengthen their sense of
belonging to the school. Many alumni are likely to be involved in ICT-related fields,
including education and ICT professions, and their knowledge and practical experience can
be a valuable source of authentic daily-life examples for students.
Government bureaux and departments
Various government bureaux and departments, including the Hong Kong Police Force (HKPF)
and the Television and Entertainment Licensing Authority (TELA), have been involved in
public education on information security and the prevention of computer-related crime. The
InfoSec website (http://www.infosec.gov.hk/) – co-developed by the HKPF, TELA and the
Office of the Government Chief Information Officer – serves as a portal for the general
public on these issues. The materials in this website are particularly useful for teaching the
topic “Threats and Security on the Internet” in the compulsory module Social Implications.
The Intellectual Property Department website (http://www.ipd.gov.hk/) consists of materials
to educate students to respect intellectual property rights and the proper use of works
protected by copyright. There are interesting, interactive materials that are useful for students’
independent study, and they are particularly relevant for the Intellectual Property topic in the
compulsory module Social Implications.
99

=== PAGE 110 ===

Government-funded organisations
Hong Kong Education City (HKEdCity) is a large-scale project launched by the EDB, and
funded by the government’s Quality Education Fund (QEF). The website has been built
collaboratively by the government and the education, social services, and business sectors to
provide high-quality information. It collates education resources and provides them online for
use by schools, teachers, students, parents and the general public, the resources can be found
at the EDB One-stop Portal for Learning & Teaching Resources
(http://www.hkedcity.net/edbosp/).
6.4 Flexible Use of Learning and Teaching Resources
Schools are encouraged to develop their own school-based learning and teaching resources
according to the needs, interests and abilities of their students whenever appropriate and
feasible. In developing school-based learning and teaching resources, members of the ICT
panel should hold collaborative lesson-planning meetings. For example, teachers working at
the same level can meet, say, once a term to plan/design a unit in the scheme of work and
subsequently use the materials and activities developed with their classes. Also, peer
observation of lessons, followed by discussion among the teachers, can improve the quality
of learning and teaching materials.
School-based learning and teaching resources should be specially prepared for students who
have difficulty in understanding particular topics, even after reading their textbooks. Also, as
there will be no textbooks for the Elective Part of the ICT curriculum, teachers need to
develop resources for the options they offer to students. They can refer to the resources
developed by the EDB and customise them to provide suitable learning tasks for less able
students. Also, to fulfil the potential of students gifted in ICT, extension activities should be
provided in which they investigate topics of interest in depth outside the classroom (e.g. by
compiling a different resource/reference list, or providing more Internet websites to promote
a global perspective on topics in ICT).
6.5 Resource Management
Effective management of resources, including the use of computer rooms and other IT
resources, is important for successful implementation of this curriculum. Schools should
co-ordinate and maximise the use of computer rooms and/or the multi-media learning centres
within and across all subjects. Also, IT resources such as hardware, software and network
resources need to be managed and maintained systematically.
6.5.1 Developing a School-based Resource Bank
Good use should be made of schools’ Intranets as teaching, learning and management tools.
Teachers should be encouraged to upload materials there and classify them in a systematic
way for effective retrieval by ICT teachers and students – for example, teachers may structure
the hierarchy of resources with reference to the curriculum framework. By refining it
regularly, the resource bank can become a comprehensive platform to support a variety of
learning and teaching activities, including homework submission, discussion forums and
collaborative project work.
100

=== PAGE 111 ===

6.5.2 Sharing Resources
A culture of sharing is the key to the success of knowledge management. Schools should
make arrangements for:
 teachers and students to share learning and teaching resources through the Intranet or
other means within the school; and
 ICT teachers to form professional development groups for the exchange of experience.
6.5.3 Accessing Resources
It is important for teachers to be fully aware of where to access relevant resources to support
their teaching; and they must foster in themselves and in their students the habit of looking
for relevant new resources, and update the school website/Intranet regularly. Students should
be encouraged to read ICT-related news and magazines and share their findings with their
peers in class.
6.5.4 Inventories of Computer Equipment
Teachers need to know what computer equipment is available for use in school. For this
purpose, ICT panel chairpersons should maintain the following three inventory records:
 a hardware inventory of the number and location of the major items, such as personal
computers, monitors, notebook computers, printers and other external peripherals;
 a software inventory of the software installed in each computer/server; and
 a license inventory, including the number of licenses for each piece of software the
school possesses, together with the relevant license documents (such as the storage boxes
of Microsoft full pack products and the whole-school license agreement).
Schools are advised to verify fully or randomly check the stocks of computer equipment at
least once a year.
6.6 Funding
To assist schools in the implementation of senior secondary curriculum, the EDB will
continue to provide them with additional funding and to allow greater flexibility in the use of
resources to cater for their diverse needs. Schools are advised to refer to the relevant and
latest circulars issued by the EDB from time to time.
101

=== PAGE 112 ===

(Blank Page)
102

=== PAGE 113 ===

Appendix 1
An Elaborated Version of Example 3 in Chapter 4 -
Integration of Generic Skills
Elective Part
Option: A Databases
Topic: b Relational Databases Concepts
Theme: Integration of generic skills
(Note: This example is an elaboration of Example 3 in Chapter 4, with the integration of
creativity, critical thinking skills and problem-solving skills discussed here.)
Students are asked to create a simple relational database for a computerised library book
reservation system for their schools. In this task, students investigate their schoolmates’ needs
and provide solutions for the relational database.
In the process of developing the solutions, students may interview their schoolmates, the
library helpers and the librarian to collect information. After that, they filter the information
and identify the attributes; and they also have to use their intuition/imagination to create some
relevant attributes. Creativity is cultivated when students design a prototype of the database.
Students then analyse critically the relationship among all the attributes, and have to
formulate the relational database to serve this purpose. They appraise the various aspects of
the relational database against the design specifications. Students’ critical thinking skills are
nurtured through the whole process – from the conceptualising of initial ideas to the
realisation of the final design.
Finally, students create a relational database for the book reservation system. In doing so,
they have developed their problem-solving skills by gathering the necessary information,
identifying the attributes and formulating the database.
103

=== PAGE 114 ===

Appendix 2
An Elaborated Version of Example 7 in Chapter 4 -
the Use of Multiple Teaching Strategies
Elective Part
Option: A Databases
Topic: c Database Design Methodology
Theme: Analyse simple scenarios in business, education or other fields and create
simple ER diagrams involving binary relationship only in designing a
database.
(Note: This example is an elaboration of Example 7 in Chapter 4, with the integrated use of
enquiry, scaffolding and feedback discussed here.)
One or two weeks before the lesson, the teacher asks students to form pairs and start
self-directed learning to investigate the data required in a school library system. Students
need to think critically about the data involved in such a system. The teacher asks them to
write down static data and dynamic data to be recorded when a book is borrowed or returned,
then design and construct the database tables for a school library system.
The teacher asks three or four groups of students to present their findings, in which they need
to state the assumptions they have made about the functions of a school library system, and
explain the designs of their table structures. The teacher should offer hints to students if they
are not able to identify the critical data required during this stage. By asking students to
present their designs with explanation and allowing them to observe their peers doing the
same, students learn how to make important and rational decisions on what information to
convey and how to convey it. At this point, the teacher should give formal and timely
feedback to students during lesson time, as this will help students to reflect on their thinking
and build up their understanding of content knowledge.
In creating an ER diagram, the teacher may want to see if students can identify entities and
their attributes; and, if not, he/she may suggest that they start by identifying entities only. If
this fails, teacher needs to point out the entities (e.g. BOOK, READER) and ask students to
name the attributes for the respective entities in turn (e.g. Title, Author, Publisher and ISBN
for BOOK). After they have done so, the teacher may ask students to discuss the possible
relationships between entities. The teacher should prompt students to the fact that different
function requirements of a system may require a different database design. To make
scaffolding successful, students should be given just enough support to enable them to carry
out the task.
104

=== PAGE 115 ===

Appendix 3
Programming Languages Used in Public Examination
The programming languages used in the public examination are shown as follows.
Cohort 2021/22 – 2022/23 - 2023/24 - 2024/25 – 2025/26 –
2023/24 2024/25 2025/26 2026/27 2027/28 and
or before onward
Compulsory Part Pascal Pascal Pascal Pascal Python
Visual Python Python Python C++
Elective Option Basic C++ C++ C++
C: Algorithm & Java
Programming C
Elective Option SQL SQL SQL SQL SQL
A: Database
Elective Option Javascript Javascript Javascript Javascript
B: Web PHP PHP PHP PHP
Application
Development
HKDSE Year 2024 or 2025 2026 2027 2028 and
before onward
We recommend students to use programming language to implement the learning elements of
programming instead of learning Python, Pascal or C++. Schools should provide
opportunities to foster students’ programming learning, so that they can apply their
knowledge and concept of algorithm when using a new programming language upon
completion of the curriculum and become lifelong learners. Please refer to the topics and
learning outcomes on pages 27-32 and 47-51 for reference. Teachers should aware the
differences of the programming languages and make adaption when implementing the
learning elements.
The programming languages used will be reviewed from time to time on a need basis.
105

=== PAGE 116 ===

Appendix 4
References and Websites for Learning and Teaching
I. Curriculum Planning
1. Board of Studies N.S.W. (2009). Information processes and technology, stage 6
syllabus. Australia: New South Wales Government.
2. Ministry of Education. (2008). The Ontario curriculum, grade 10 to 12, computer
studies. Canada: Ministry of Education.
3. Queensland Studies Authority. (2010). Information processing & technology (IPT)
senior syllabus (2010). Australia: Queensland Studies Authority.
II. Learning and Teaching
Reference Books
1. Kirkwood, M. (2000). Infusing higher-order thinking and learning to learn into
content instruction: A case study of secondary computing studies in Scotland.
Journal of Curriculum Studies, 32(4), 509 – 535.
Websites
1. Facione, P. (2013). Critical thinking: What it is and why it counts. Retrieved 12
August, 2015 from
http://www.insightassessment.com/content/download/1176/7580/file/What%26why
2013.pdf.
2. Wegerif, R. (2002). Literature review in thinking skills, technology and learning.
FutureLab. Retrieved 12 August, 2015 from
http://archive.futurelab.org.uk/resources/publications-reports-articles/literature-revi
ews/Literature-Review394/.
III. Curriculum Content
A. The Compulsory Part
Reference Books
1. Bryant, R., and O’Hallaron, D. (2015). Computer systems: a programmer’s
perspective (Third edition). USA: Prentice Hall.
2. Comer, D. (2014). Computer networks and internets (Sixth edition). USA: Prentice
Hall.
106

=== PAGE 117 ===

3. Gralla, P. (2006). How the internet works (Eighth edition). USA: Que.
Websites
1. Bynum, T. (2008). Computer and Information Ethics. Retrieved 12 August, 2015
from http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ethics-computer/.
2. Moceyunas, A. (2002). On-line privacy: the push and pull of self-regulation and
law. Retrieved 12 August, 2015 from
http://www.moceyunas.com/html/privacy.html.
B. The Elective Option - Databases
Reference Books
1. Auer, D. and Kroenke, D. (2013). Database processing (Thirteenth edition). USA:
Prentice Hall.
2. Coronel, C, Morris, S. and Rob, P. (2012). Database systems: Design,
implementation and management (Tenth edition). USA: Course Technology.
Websites
1. Art Branch, Inc. (2004). SQL tutorial - Learn SQL. Retrieved 12 August, 2015
from http://www.sql-tutorial.net.
2. Chapple, M. (2015). Database normalization basics. Retrieved 12 August, 2015
from http://databases.about.com/od/specificproducts/a/normalization.htm.
C. The Elective Option - Web Application Development
Reference Books
1. Nixon, R. (2018). Learning PHP, MySQL & JavaScript: With jQuery, CSS &
HTML5 (Fifth edition). USA: O'Reilly Media.
2. Pascarello, E. (2004). JavaScript: Your visual blueprint for building dynamic web
pages (Second edition). USA: Wiley Publishing, Inc.
3. Robbins, J. (2018). Learning web design: A beginner's guide to HTML, CSS,
JavaScript, and web graphics (Fifth edition). USA: O'Reilly Media.
Websites
1. Refsnes Data. (2015). HTML tutorial. w3schools. Retrieved 12 August, 2015 from
http://www.w3schools.com/html/default.asp.
2. Reiter. R. (no date). learn-php.org. Retrieved 26 September, 2019 from
107

=== PAGE 118 ===

https://www.learn-php.org/.
3. Reiter, R. (no date). learn-js.org. Retrieved 26 September, 2019 from
https://www.learn-js.org/.
D. The Elective Option - Algorithm and Programming
Reference Books
1. Shaw, Z. (2014). Learn Python the Hard Way: A Very Simple Introduction to the
Terrifyingly Beautiful World of Computers and Code (Third edition). USA:
Addison-Wesley Professional.
2. Zak, D. (2015). An Introduction to Programming with C++ (Eighth edition). USA:
Cengage Learning.
Websites
1. Larson, Q. (no date). freeCodeCamp. Retrieved 26 September, 2019 from
https://guide.freecodecamp.org/.
2. Reiter, R. (no date). learnpython.org. Retrieved 26 September, 2019 from
https://www.learnpython.org/.
3. Saliba, V. J. (no date). Pascal-Programming.info. Retrieved 26 September, 2019
from http://www.pascal-programming.info/index.php.
108

=== PAGE 119 ===

Glossary
Term Description
Applied Learning (ApL) ApL is an integral part of the senior secondary curriculum.
Students at all ability levels could take ApL courses as elective
subjects. The design principles of ApL courses are the same as
those of other school subjects, focusing on the development of
knowledge, generic skills, values and attitudes. Through
application and practice, ApL aims to provide learning
experiences in professional and vocational contexts for students
to understand fundamental theories and concepts, develop
beginners’ skill set and generic skills, and explore career
aspirations and orientation for lifelong learning. A flexible
combination of ApL courses with core subjects, elective subjects
and Other Learning Experiences broadens students’ learning
experience and enhances diversification within the senior
secondary curriculum for holistic learning.
Assessment Objectives The outcomes of the curriculum to be assessed in the public
assessment.
Co-construction The approach of “learning and teaching as co-construction” is
different from direct instruction and enquiry learning.
Co-construction emphasises the learning community formed by
both teachers and students in the learning process and the joint
participation of both parties. This process contributes to the
general building up of knowledge.
Core Subjects Subjects recommended to all students to take at senior secondary
level: Chinese Language, English Language, Mathematics and
Citizenship and Social Development.
Curriculum and A guide prepared by the CDC-HKEAA Committee. It comprises
Assessment (C&A) Guide curriculum aims/objectives/contents and learning outcomes, and
assessment guidelines.
Elective Subjects They include a total of 20 senior secondary subjects, a wide range
of Applied Learning courses and six Other Languages in the
senior secondary curriculum from which students may choose to
develop their interests and abilities. They open up a number of
pathways for further study and careers.
Generic Skills Introduced in 2001, the nine generic skills are refined in 2017.
The refined generic skills include Communication Skills, IT
Skills, Mathematical Skills, Self-management Skills,
Self-learning Skills, Collaboration Skills, Critical Thinking
Skills, Creativity and Problem Solving Skills. According to their
nature, the generic skills are grouped under three categories:
“basic skills”, “thinking skills” and “personal and social skills”,
109

=== PAGE 120 ===

Term Description
and are refined to promote their integrative use, such as
collaborative problem solving and holistic thinking.
Hong Kong Diploma of The HKDSE is the qualification awarded to students after
Secondary Education completing the three-year senior secondary curriculum
(HKDSE) (implemented since 2009) and taking the public assessment.
Internal Assessment This refers to the assessment activities that are conducted
regularly in school to assess students’ performance in learning.
Internal assessment is an inseparable part of the learning and
teaching process, and it aims to make learning more effective.
With the information that internal assessment provides, teachers
will be able to understand students’ progress in learning, provide
them with appropriate feedback and make any adjustments to the
learning objectives and teaching strategies they deem necessary.
Key Learning Areas It is a way of organising the school curriculum around
(KLA) fundamental concepts of major knowledge domains. It aims at
providing a broad, balanced and coherent curriculum for all
students through engaging them in a variety of essential learning
experiences. The Hong Kong school curriculum encompasses
eight KLAs, i.e. Chinese Language Education (CLE), English
Language Education (ELE), Mathematics Education (ME),
Personal, Social and Humanities Education (PSHE), Science
Education (SE), Technology Education (TE), Arts Education
(AE) and Physical Education (PE).
Learner Diversity (LD) It refers to the variations in learning ability and outcomes among
students receiving the same instruction. Their differences may be
due to divergence in abilities, motivation, interests,
socio-economic backgrounds, etc. Teachers may differentiate
their instruction and flexibly group the students to turn LD into
new learning opportunities in the classroom.
Learning Community It refers to a group of people who have shared values and goals,
and work closely together to generate knowledge and create new
ways of learning through active participation, collaboration and
reflection. In the school context, a learning community may
involve not only students and teachers, but also parents and other
parties.
Learning Outcomes Learning outcomes refer to what students are expected to master
by the end of a particular stage of learning. They are developed
based on the learning targets and objectives of the curriculum for
the purpose of evaluating learning effectiveness. Learning
outcomes also describe the levels of performance that students
should attain after completing a particular key stage of learning.
Learning Targets and Learning targets set out broadly the knowledge/concepts, skills,
110

=== PAGE 121 ===

Term Description
Learning Objectives values and attitudes that students need to learn and develop.
Learning objectives define specifically what students should
know, value and be able to do in each strand of the KLA/subject
in accordance with the broad targets at each key stage. They are
to be used by teachers as a checklist for curriculum, lesson and
activity planning.
Level Descriptors A set of written descriptions that describes what the typical
candidates performing a certain level is able to do in public
assessments.
Public Assessment The associated assessment and examination system for the
HKDSE.
SBA Moderation The mechanism adopted by HKEAA to adjust SBA marks
Mechanism submitted by schools to iron out possible differences across
schools in marking standards and without affecting the rank order
determined by the school.
School-based Assessment SBA is administered in schools as part of the learning and
(SBA) teaching process, with students being assessed by their subject
teachers. Marks awarded will be counted towards students’
results in the local public examinations conducted by the
HKEAA.
School-based curriculum Schools and teachers are encouraged to adapt the central
curriculum to develop their school-based curriculum to help their
students achieve the subject targets and overall aims of education.
Measures may include readjusting the learning targets, varying
the organisation of contents, adding optional studies and adapting
learning, teaching and assessment strategies. A school-based
curriculum is therefore the outcome of a balance between official
recommendations and the autonomy of the schools and teachers.
Standards-referenced SRR is a reporting system adopted in the HKDSE Examination.
Reporting (SRR) Candidates’ performance is reported in terms of levels of
performance matched against a set of standards.
111

=== PAGE 122 ===

Term Description
Student Learning Profile SLP is the supplementary information built up by senior
(SLP) secondary students to reflect their learning experiences in
life-wide learning and achievements, in addition to their
academic performance in the HKDSE Examination. SLP includes
the following:
 Academic performance in school
 Other Learning Experiences
 Awards/achievements gained outside school
 Student’s self-account (e.g. learning experiences, career goal
setting)
Information in SLP could be considered in students’ application
for further study and recruitment.
Values and Attitudes Values and attitudes are generally referred to as one but carry
different meanings.
Values indicate how one assigns different values to and affect
his/her understanding and judgment of thing. Nurturing positive
values in students enables them to understand and judge right
from wrong, analyse and evaluate an event or an issue with
positive values as the foundation, and have the courage to act
according to the values for the well-being of the community, the
nation and the world.
Attitudes are one’s perception and position on things, which have
a critical influence on his/her behaviour. Developing students’
positive attitudes towards life helps them face the challenges and
adversities of life with an optimistic and positive attitude, and
treat people and things around with an appreciative and receptive
mind.
112

=== PAGE 123 ===

References
Alexander, R. (2006). Towards dialogic teaching: Rethinking classroom talk (Third edition).
York: Dislogos.
Black, P., and William, D. (1998a). Assessment and classroom learning. Assessment in
Education, 5 (1), 7-74.
Black, P., and William, D. (1998b). Inside the black box: Raising standards through
classroom assessment. Phi Delta Kappan, October, 139-148.
Curriculum Development Council. (2001). Learning to learn – The way forward in
curriculum development. Hong Kong: The Printing Department, HKSAR Government.
Curriculum Development Council. (2002). Basic education curriculum guide (Primary 1 to
Secondary 3). Hong Kong: The Printing Department, HKSAR Government.
Curriculum Development Council. (2017). Secondary Education Curriculum Guide. Hong
Kong.
Curriculum Development Council. (2017). Technology education key learning area
curriculum guide (Primary 1 to Secondary 6). Hong Kong.
Education Department. (2000). Information technology learning target: A guideline for
schools to organize teaching and learning activities to develop our students’ capability
in using IT. Hong Kong: The Printing Department, HKSAR Government.
Education and Manpower Bureau. (2005). The new academic structure for senior secondary
education and higher education – Action plan for investing in the future of Hong Kong.
Hong Kong: The Government Logistics Department, HKSAR Government.
Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority. (2001). Hong Kong Advanced
Supplementary Level Computer Applications examination paper. Hong Kong: The
Printing Department, HKSAR Government.
Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority. (2004). Hong Kong Advanced
Supplementary Level Computer Applications examination paper. Hong Kong: The
Government Logistics Department, HKSAR Government.
Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority. (2005). Hong Kong certificate of
education Computer and Information Technology examination paper. Hong Kong: The
Government Logistics Department, HKSAR Government.
Stiggins, R. (2004). New assessment beliefs for a new school mission. Phi Delta Kappan, 86
(1), 22-27.
Watkins, C. (2005). Classrooms as learning communities. What is it for schools? London and
New York: Routledge.
113

=== PAGE 124 ===

(Blank Page)
114

=== PAGE 125 ===

Membership of the CDC-HKEAA Committee on
Information and Communication Technology (Senior Secondary)
(From December 2003 to September 2013)
Chairperson: Mr NG Hok-ling
Members: Dr CHAN Fun-ting
Mr CHEUNG Kin-sun, Jackson
Mr CHEUNG Wah-sang, Watson
Dr FU Wai-chee, Ada (until June 2007)
Dr LEE Kar-tin (until February 2006)
Ms LEE Man-yee, Anna (until May 2006)
Dr NG To-yee, Vincent
Mr TANG King-chi
Mr WONG Kin-wai, Albert
Mr WONG Kwong-wai, Raymond
Mr WONG Wing-hong, Robert
Ms YING Evon
Dr YU Yuen-tak
Ex-officio Members: Mr LUI Kam-ming, Michael (EDB) (from March 2009)
Ms CHUNG Po-yuk, Ada (EDB) (from June 2008 to
February 2009)
Mr WU Man-wai David (EDB) (from December 2004
to May 2008)
Mr TANG Kin-hung (EDB) (until October 2004)
Mr NG Ka-ming, Jonathan (HKEAA)
Secretary: Mr LO Wing-kin, Jeff (EDB) (from July 2010)
Ms CHEUNG Wing-sze, Tammy (EDB) (from March 2010 to
June 2010)

=== PAGE 126 ===

Mr SO Koon-keung, Teddy (EDB) (from January 2006 to
February 2010)
Ms CHUNG Po-yuk, Ada (EDB) (from September to
December 2005)
Ms CHUNG Sau-sim, Jessica (EDB) (until August 2005)

=== PAGE 127 ===

Membership of the CDC-HKEAA Committee on
Information and Communication Technology (Senior Secondary)
(From September 2013 to August 2015)
Chairperson: Mr NG Hok-ling
Members: Mr CHEUNG Ka-chun
Mr CHUNG Wai-tung
Prof KONG Siu-cheung
Mr LEUNG Ming-kam
Dr NG To-yee, Vincent
Mr TANG Chin-to
Mr WONG Pak-yick
Dr YU Yuen-tak
Ex-officio Members: Mr LUI Kam-ming, Michael (EDB)
Mr NG Ka-ming, Jonathan (HKEAA)
Secretary: Mr POON Gong (EDB) (from April 2014)
Mr LO Wing-kin, Jeff (EDB) (until March 2014)

=== PAGE 128 ===

Membership of the CDC-HKEAA Committee on
Information and Communication Technology (Senior Secondary)
(From September 2015 to August 2017)
Chairperson: Mr CHEUNG Ka-chun
Members: Mr CHAN Siu-keung
Dr CHUI Chun-kit
Dr CHUNG Fu-lai
Mr CHUNG Wai-tung
Prof KONG Siu-cheung
Mr LEUNG Ming-kam
Mr TANG Chin-to
Mr WONG Pak-yick
Dr WONG Tsz-yeung
Ex-officio Members: Mr LUI Kam-ming, Michael (EDB)
Mr NG Ka-ming, Jonathan (HKEAA)
Secretary: Mr LIU Ying-shun (EDB) (from May 2016)
Mr POON Gong (EDB) (until April 2016)

=== PAGE 129 ===

Membership of the CDC-HKEAA Committee on
Information and Communication Technology (Senior Secondary)
(From September 2017 to August 2019)
Chairperson: Mr CHEUNG Ka-chun
Members:
Mr CHAN Siu-keung
Dr CHUI Chun-kit
Dr CHUNG Fu-lai
Mr CHUNG Wai-tung
Mr HSIA Ming-wai
Mr KAM Wai-ming
Prof KONG Siu-cheung
Mr LEUNG Yiu-tong
Ex-officio Members: Mr LUI Kam-ming, Michael (EDB)
Mr NG Ka-ming, Jonathan (HKEAA)
Secretary: Mr HO Shing-fat, Wilfred (EDB) (from October 2018)
Mr LIU Ying-shun (EDB) (until September 2018)

=== PAGE 130 ===

Membership of the CDC-HKEAA Committee on
Information and Communication Technology (Senior Secondary)
(From September 2019 to August 2021)
Chairperson: Mr KAM Wai-ming
Members:
Mr CHAN Siu-keung
Mr CHU Ka-tim
Dr CHUI Chun-kit
Mr HSIA Ming-wai
Mr LAW Hing-man, Hudson
Mr LEUNG Pak-cheong
Mr LEUNG King-yuen, Eric
Mr NG Sum-sum, Sam
Dr POON Kin-man
Ex-officio Members: Mr LUI Kam-ming, Michael (EDB)
Mr NG Ka-ming, Jonathan (HKEAA)
Secretary: Ms NGAN Wing-ki, Vesta (EDB) (from September 2020)
Mr HO Shing-fat, Wilfred (EDB) (until August 2020)

=== PAGE 131 ===

(Blank Page)